@Intro 
Chrom: I'd like to believe it's our cunning that got us this far without being spotted... But we've seen far too little of the Plegian Guard. Where are they? Whatever trap Gangrel has planned, he is in no hurry to spring it. 
Frederick: Milord, our scouts report some manner of engagement downfield.
Chrom: Understood. Get everyone ready to move.
Frederick: These desert sands are certain to bog down our units, milord. Only mages and fliers will likely be able to proceed unhindered.
Chrom: Good point. I'll keep it in mind. Robin, let's discuss strategy.

@Battle 
Nowi: *Huff, huff* Have... Have I lost him?

Gregor: Wait, I say! Why you no comprehending, wee one?
Nowi: AUGH! GET AWAY! Everyone just leave me ALONE!
Gregor: Please, be keeping down with the voice! You give away position! Very bad!
Nowi: My throat is dry, my shoes are full of sand, and some big weirdo is trying to KILL ME!
Gregor: Oy, you break Gregor's heart! Why you treat like villain?

Chrom: You there! Fiend! Keep your hands off that maiden!
Gregor: Who is fiend? ...You mean Gregor? No, friend! You have idea wrong!
Lissa: Yeah, right! ...Creep!
Gregor: This day has been nothing but insults and punches to groin. And all for doing good deed! ...Listen, friend! Gregor only want to—

Chalard: Gotcha, you slippery scamp! Prepare for a dose of Grima's wrath.
Gregor: Oy, this is most terrible! Do you see now? They make with the catching of us!
Chrom: Why are you all after the girl?
Gregor: All? What is this "all"? Gregor is not one of "all"! Look close! Maybe you not see from so far? Gregor have innocent-baby face!
Chrom: Hmm…
Lissa: Well…
Robin: Yeah... Not sure "innocent baby" is how I'd describe it…
Gregor: Gah! Never be minding! Gregor is not enemy! You must believe!
Chrom: ...This is making my head hurt. We'll sort him out later. Right now, we need to protect the girl.
Nowi: Y-you're going to help me?
Chrom: We'll do everything in our power to keep you safe. Just hold on until we can reach you, and we'll drive them off!

Chrom: We need to warn these villages of the danger. But who to send? Best if it's someone who can move swiftly through the sands...

Nowi: GET AWAY FROM ME!

Robin: What in blazes?! The girl is a dragon!
Chrom: By the gods, she's a manakete... I never thought I'd see one.
Robin: Hmm... Perhaps she doesn't need our help so much as we could use hers...

@Character-Falls
Nowi: Nngh... That h-hurts! I have to get to...safety...

@Boss
Chalard: Ha ha! You dare defy Grima, god of annihilation?

Chalard: Master Grima...my life force...is yours...

@Visit 
Elder: Gods praise ye, good people! Gods praise ye one and all! We lives in constant fear of what the Grimleal will do to us, so we does! 'Ere! Take this staff with me blessings! It can fetch distant comrades to safety. Be sure to place it in the hands o' one gifted in spells or the like. Magic folk be able to reach the farthest with it!

Villager: You have our thanks for the warning. Please, take this. It's my family's treasure. I would offer more, if only I could. A fellow with enough experience could use it to grow even stronger.

Maiden: Really? You'll protect the village? ...This little dung heap? Goodness, you're kind! I suppose I should give you a little something, eh? ...Here. Someone with enough experience could use this to start a new life. It's like running off to join a circus troupe! ...But more classy-like.

@End 
Nowi: This is just the worst. Day. EVER! *sob!*
Gregor: Ho now, wee one! Do not make with the crying of tears. The evil people are now dead people. This is good, no?
Nowi: You... You're right. Th-thank you. And... I'm sorry I was so mean to you earlier. I just get nervous around people who are...outside my age group.
Gregor: Your age group? Ha! Gregor much closer to your age than others here!
Chrom: Say, um...Gregor, was it? Gregor, do you mind looking after her? We need to press on.
Gregor: Mmm... Gregor is mercenary, yes? Maybe you hire Gregor instead. True, Gregor just finish killing former employers, but still very reliable! So long as you not try to hurt little girl, Gregor will not hurt you. Also, Gregor need steady income. ...Many angry former employers.
Chrom: You're a sellsword?
Gregor: Yes! Very swell sword! Cost performance very high. You have Gregor's word.
Chrom: Sure, why not? You're hired.
Nowi: But! But what about me?! I WON'T go back on the auction block!
Lissa: Wait. You've been sold? Like a...like a slave?!
Nowi: To men more despicable than you can possibly imagine. They made me transform for them... They drank and laughed and called out tricks…
Lissa: What kind of scumbags buy and sell a little girl?! Even if she CAN turn into a dragon…
Frederick: She may be little, milady, but not nearly so young as you might think. Manaketes live a very long time.
Lissa: Really? ...How old are you?
Nowi: Oh, I dunno. ...A thousand...something? But look! No wrinkles!
Frederick: The dragonkin are said to be more resilient than men. Nowi would make a strong ally. Besides, we cannot risk her falling back into the hands of the Grimleal.
Robin: Beg pardon, but who are the Grimleal?
Frederick: Followers of the fell dragon, Grima. The selfsame dragon the first exalt defeated a thousand years ago. Even today there are some who yearn for the fiend's return.
Robin: I...see.
Flavia: Well, shall we get some rest? We're almost to the Plegian capital. We'll need all our strength, soon enough…
/***EOF***/
@Intro
Chrom: Origin Peak...
Naga: The fell dragon is indeed here. Remember, Awakener! The power I gave you cannot destroy Grima.
Robin: It can only put him back to sleep...
Naga: Correct, Fellblood.
Robin: So you know of my lineage?
Naga: You possess power not so different from my own.
Chrom: We must find some way to break this unholy cycle! We can't just keep putting Grima back to sleep every few centuries. Otherwise we merely will his vengeance on our descendants.
Robin: ...I may know a way.
Chrom: Yes, Robin? You have some strategy?
Robin: The other me claimed the dragon and I were the same, yes? If I strike the final blow, he'd be killed by his own hand...
Chrom: Robin! Ingenious! Naga? Will it work?
Naga: ...Perhaps. But there would be consequences. Grima's heart and Robin's are inexorably linked. Dragon and man/woman can no longer be separated. Therefore, slaying Grima would also cause the end of Robin's life.
Robin: ...I realize that. I am ready.
Naga: There is...a chance you could survive, but it is small indeed. You have bound your heart to those of many others in this world.
#avatar-M
Robin: If those ties prove strong enough, they may yet keep you in this reality. But I would not give you false hope. The chance you would live is insignificant. In truth, you will almost certainly cease to exist.
#avatar-F
Robin: If those bonds prove strong enough, they may yet keep you in this reality. However, not even a thousand human friendships surpass the dragon's grip. In truth, you will almost certainly cease to exist.

@Intro
Robin: ......
Chrom: Robin would cease to be?! No. We'll find another way.
Robin: Chrom, wait. You're not thinking clearly. Think about what your sister would have wanted.
Chrom: Emmeryn would never have asked you to do this!
Robin: What is one life, when weighed against millions?
Chrom: Stop it! You're one of us. You'll ALWAYS be one of us. There has to be another way. We just have to find it. Promise me, Robin. Promise me you won't do this!
^start 
Robin: You have been so very kind to me, Chrom, always... But this is my decision.
Chrom: Robin...

Robin: ...You're right, Chrom. I'm sorry.
Chrom: We swore to stand by each other, remember? We're two halves of a whole... Not even a dragon can sever us!
^end
Naga: The time for deliberation is over, Awakener. The Grimleal have found us.
Lucina: Father! We're under attack!

@Battle 
Aversa: Really, now—still at your little schemes? Butchering Validar wasn't enough? Do you SEE what your great struggle has won you?! ...NOTHING! Master Grima has returned! The world's fate is sealed! Or perhaps you simply seek a tender embrace here at the end? Hmm? I'm not completely cruel, you know. Come, I have a kiss for each of you...
Naga: Be swift, Awakener. Grima's servants will harry you to the very last. You must reach the dragon before it is too late.

@Boss 
Aversa: Murderers! You'll pay for taking Master Validar from me!

Aversa: Ahh...finally... Sweet...death... Finally...the pain... F-finally...it ends... 

@End 
Lissa: Yikes! What was that?!
Lucina: The dragon's call!

Lucina: Grima!
Chrom: We can defeat him!
Frederick: Milord, how does a man challenge a mountain?! Where would one even strike?!
Naga: The fell dragon has a weakness on the nape of his neck. But that weakness will be guarded by his servants. I can send you onto the dragon's back, but the rest is in your hands.
Chrom: Then please, milady, and quickly! We would ask no more of you. Everyone, gird yourselves! One way or another this ends here!
/***EOF***/
@Intro 
Lissa: Brrr! F-F-Frebberick! I'm f-f-freebing!
Frederick: Stand beside my horse, milady. She'll shelter you from the wind.
Robin: So this is the fortress?
Chrom: Yes, the Longfort. It stretches along the border of Ylisse and Regna Ferox.
Frederick: The khans that rule Ferox have grown quite wary of foreigners. Still, don't mistake a lack of hospitality for open hostility. This simply calls for a bit of diplomacy.
Chrom: Negotiation's not my strong suit, but I'll do my best. Remember, everyone: your actions here reflect back upon Ylisse.

Frederick: Trouble in the wind, milord: the Feroxi Guard are mobilizing.
Chrom: What?! Why?
Frederick: Who can say? But they look ready to let fly at a moment's notice. We'd best prepare for combat, just to be safe. Perhaps we ought pool our supplies and select which Shepherds to deploy? Loath as I am to trust him/her, Robin might offer some valuable insight in this…
Chrom: Indeed, he/she IS our tactician, after all. So, Robin? What do you suggest?

@Battle 
Raimi: Halt! Who goes there?!
Chrom: In the name of House Ylisse, I seek audience with the khans!
Raimi: Not another step, my bold lad! I've lancers at the ready!
Frederick: Hold, milady! We are not your enemy! Exalt Emmeryn herself sent us to discuss matters of mutual interest.
Raimi: My only interest is keeping you out of Regna Ferox, brigand!
Frederick: B-brigand? Now see here—
Raimi: You think you are the first "Ylisseans" to try and cross our border? I have the authority to fell such imposters where they stand.
Frederick: How dare you! You are in the presence of Prince Chrom, the exalt's own blood!
Raimi: Ha! Yes, indeed—and I'm the queen of Valm! You do realize impersonating royalty is a capital offense, yes? Mmm... Then perhaps we should settle this the Feroxi way. You claim to be the prince of Ylisse? Then prove it on the battlefield!
Chrom: Rgh... Emmeryn won't like this at all... Please, good lady! If you'd just listen—
Raimi: I've heard quite enough! Attack!

@Cutscene 
Chrom: Sumia...?
Sumia: Better hold on tight, Captain. Could get bumpy.
Chrom: Uh...right.
Sumia: You'll be fine.

Chrom: Sumia!
Sumia: Right! 

Sumia: Oh, Captain, I'm so relieved I made it in time.
Chrom: That goes double for me, Sumia! And this—is this the same ornery pegasus we met on the road?!
Sumia: Oh, she's a sweetheart, isn't she? ...Once you really get to know her…
Chrom: Well, many thanks to you both.
Lissa: I think the pegasus is blushing!
Frederick: And I think we had all best focus on the situation at hand!
Robin: Chrom, they're coming!
Chrom: All right. The Feroxi way it is!

@Battle 
Sumia: Phila said pegasi can fly far afield, but they're highly vulnerable to arrows. Don't worry, girl. I'll watch out for archers for both our sakes!

@Recruit-Talk 
%Chrom,Kellam 
Chrom: Why do I feel like I'm being watched...?
???: Um, sir? ...Sir! Right here, sir!
Chrom: Who's there? Show yourself!
Kellam: I'm standing in plain sight, sir. Right he—
Chrom: BWAAAH! Oh! I-is that you, Kellam? When did you arrive?
Kellam: ...The same time as you. I've been with you all along. Er, I AM still a Shepherd, right? It's quite the honor, after all. I'd hate to lose it. Sometimes I—
Chrom: Of course, Kellam. Forgive me. You're just so...quiet, I completely—
Kellam: Quite all right, sir, quite all right. I've been told I'm easy to miss.
Chrom: At least the Feroxi didn't find you.
Kellam: I've been calling to you and waving my arms for several minutes... I don't think they've so much as glanced this way.
Chrom: You almost sound disappointed.
Kellam: Well, I just... I'm glad you finally saw me! Just try to keep an eye out from now on?

@Battle 
Robin: Hmm…
Chrom: What is it, Robin?
Robin: I've been thinking about how you rode with Sumia earlier... Do our unit always have to fight one-on-one?
Chrom: Are you suggesting we pair up? That's an interesting thought... I admit, I'd resemble a pincushion right now if it weren't for Sumia and her mount.
Robin: Exactly. By pairing up, units could lend each other added offense and defense... It might also allow quicker soldiers to ferry slower units great distances... Yes... Yes! I'm sure of it. This opens up all sorts of strategic possibilities! We should try it whenever the opportunity presents itself.

Kellam: *Sigh* Do they STILL not see me? Perhaps Chrom will talk to me if I...wave my...hands around...

Chrom: It already feels as though Robin has been a Shepherd forever. It's funny how fighting alongside someone speeds friendships along... And the more we fight side by side, the more valuable those friendships become!

Frederick: A key! We can use it to open the fortress doors.

@Boss
Raimi: Let our battle sound out the truth of your words!

Raimi: Then your claims were...true...

@End 
Raimi: A thousand apologies, Prince Chrom. I truly took you for brigand impostors. But no frauds could ever wage a battle as you just have! I will send word of your arrival to the capital and escort you there personally.
Chrom: That would be most appreciated, thank you.

Robin: Amazing. Her whole demeanor changed.
Frederick: In Ferox, strength speaks louder than words. I should have known better than to overestimate the value of diplomacy here…
Lissa: So can we get going, Chrom?
Chrom: Yes, it's not getting any warmer.
/***EOF***/
@Intro
Flavia: Damn! Look at those walls... This isn't going to be easy.
Basilio: It's not the walls I'm worried about—it's the hordes of Valmese inside them.
Say'ri: Our best bet is a swift, surgical strike, right at their heart. If we can strike down their commander, the fortress will be ours. So—Khan Flavia, your men will take on the forces surrounded the castle. That should create an opening for a smaller team led by Chrom and I. ...I regret to say this will put you at the forefront of the battle, Sir Chrom.
Chrom: I wouldn't have it any other way.
Say'ri: Then it's settled. Other Resistance forces are on the way. With luck, they'll arrive in time to help. Let's cleave them a proud trail of imperial blood to find us by!

Pheros: Hmph. Such arrogance... They truly mean to assault Steiger in such meager numbers? Perhaps they expect a woman's garrison to be a softer target,.. Heh, when I'm through, they'll wish they'd challenged Yen'fay instead. Battle stations!

@Battle
Say'ri: Sir Chrom—I hear movement from the floor below. It may be reinforcements. Be wary...

Say'ri: Our comrades! But wait, how...
Chrom: The Resistance had already infiltrated the castle...?
Say'ri: Nay, impossible! Something is amiss...

Excellus: Oooh, it appears I'm just in time for the Rebellion reunion! Delicious... Please, do give your "friends" your warmest welcome. Just remember your promise...or you can be sure I will remember mine.

Chrom: Say'ri... Are you certain their reinforcements are from the Resistance?
Say'ri: Aye, sir, I'm ashamed to say I am. I know some of them by name. ...B-but why would they turn cloak against us now?!
Excellus: Oooh, it seems we've touched a nerve! I do so enjoy inappropriate touching... Now be good little servants and scrub the stronghold of these Ylissean filth.

Pheros: What is this meddling, Excellus?!
Excellus: ..."Meddling"? Why, General Pheros, one might almost mistake you for ungrateful. This "meddling" is going to save your post, and quite possibly your life...
Pheros: We've no need of your parlor tricks here, schemer! I can handle this myself.
Excellus: Why yes, of course you can, General! I can see you're doing SO well already. You're obviously just...waiting to crush the Ylisseans? Toying with them, like a cat! I only brought these rebels so they might learn from your shining example! They were so anxious to join the cause...
Pheros: Because you threatened them? Tortured them? ...Or perhaps their families? Their villages?
Excellus: *Ahem* ...I would not wish to burden you with such mundane details, good General. You have more important matters to think after, and to deal with...quickly. But rest assured they are QUITE motivated. Feel free to thank me some other time!

Pheros: Odious freak... He has no honor. Just the sight of him makes me sick. He is the worm, yet I'm the one left squirming... Bah. ...True, his interference may seal our victory...but he'll never hear me say it.

^locked 
Soldier: General! Sir Excellus is here to see you.
Excellus: Good day to you, General. You look ravishing, as always.
Pheros: Why are you here, trickster?
Excellus: "Trickster"? Why General, it's almost as if you aren't happy to see me! And after I came all this way to help you... I brought friends, you know. Well... perhaps "friends" isn't the word... But they will fight for you all the same.
Pheros: You brought rebels into my stronghold?! Why would they fight their own kind? Unless... You threatened them? Tortured them? ...Or perhaps their families? Their villages?
Excellus: *Ahem* ...I would not wish to burden you with such mundane details, good General. You have more important matters to think after, and to deal with...quickly. But rest assured they are QUITE motivated. Feel free to thank me some other time!
Pheros: Odious freak... He has no honor. Just the sight of him makes me sick. He is the worm, yet I'm the one left squirming... Bah. ...True, his interference may seal our victory...but he'll never hear me say it.
^end

@Boss 
Pheros: In the name of the Conqueror, you shall not take this fortress! 

Pheros: Nngh... Well done... I may not live...to see Walhart unify all mankind...with my own eyes... But I have seen it...in my dreams... And that is enough... 

%Chrom,Pheros
Pheros: Then you'd be Prince Chrom... Once, I followed your exalted sister, you know. Made the pilgrimage all the way to Ylisstol, just to hear her speak. I, too, grew up worshiping Naga and the Earth Mother.
Chrom: ...Yet you abandoned your faith.
Pheros: I have no use for invisible spirits any longer. I serve a god among men now. Emperor Walhart will do what no religion ever could—unite all people.
Chrom: Your naivete betrays you. Think about it: who willingly follows a tyrant?
Pheros: Thinking plays no part in it. In words and deeds, a great leader takes hold of the heart, not the mind. I remember your sister possessing that selfsame gift for inspiring others. Doubtless many still cling to the power of her poetry. But I have found a greater voice...
Chrom: My sister believed we all desire the same thing: peace. If Walhart holds such promise, why must he use violence to unite the people?
Pheros: Now who is being naive, good Prince? Sometimes those who will not walk must be dragged along or pushed aside. So raise your sword, Chrom of Ylisse, and prepare to be pushed aside.

@End 
Say'ri: Steiger has fallen. ...But I'm afraid our new enemy has the fortress surrounded.
Chrom: "New enemy"... You mean the rest of the former Resistance?
Say'ri: Aye, sir. Words cannot express my shame. My...regret... Finally, I succeed in uniting them...but only against us.
Soldier: Milord! Dire news! Our forces to the north and south have been decimated by Walhart and Yen'fay! What's worse, most of the survivors have turned their coats for the empire!
Say'ri: B-but our troops numbered in the hundreds of thousands!
Basilio: The empire must have had more.
Flavia: Or perhaps have been better trained and equipped...
Say'ri: Blast! Walhart and my brother—where are their armies now?
Soldier: Marching toward this fortress, milady. It's only a matter of time.
Basilio: So much for fortune favoring the bold. This war was lost before it even began.
Chrom: All our struggles until now, and we've yet to so much as dent the empire...
Robin: ...Chrom?
Chrom: What is it, Robin? Do you have something to say?
Robin: We need to leave here—right away.
Flavia: Have you lost your wits? We're surrounded!
Robin: When the other armies arrive, then we'll be trapped for a certainty. If we intend to escape, now is our best chance.
Say'ri: He/She's right. The dynasts outside betray us only out of fear for the empire. They'll only put up token resistance without their masters watching.
Chrom: But we can't keep running forever. How do we hope to turn the tide?
Robin: By striking at either Walhart or Yen'fay before they join strength.
Chrom: Either one seems a death sentence.
Say'ri: One general would be upon us before we could finish with the other.
Robin: I agree...which is why we attack both.
Flavia: Our army lies in tatters, yet you would divide it by half?!
Robin: ...I didn't say by half. Chrom would lead our strongest troops against Yen'fay. Meanwhile, a smaller force could attack Walhart.
Basilio: A SMALLER force? We couldn't defeat him with double our entire number.
Robin: ...I didn't say we'd defeat him. We only need to distract him.
Basilio: Hmm... Spend some lives to buy the other team time...
Chrom: This smaller force would face our most dangerous mission yet. It would need a leader of unparalleled skill, reckless bravery...
Basilio: All right, Chrom, please—you're embarrassing me! I'll do it already—just stop with all the compliments!
Robin: This is no time for japes, Basilio. The stakes could not be higher.
Basilio: I am being serious—I'll lead the squad. Though I prefer my steaks well done...
Flavia: That's just his way, Robin. Bad jokes come with the bravado. But the oaf clearly has faith in your thinking. And I as well... All of us do, I'd wager. Somehow you always find a way to best the odds.
Basilio: Then it's settled. I'll make preparations and be off. The rest of you stay with Chrom and keep him safe.
Robin: Godspeed, Basilio.

Lucina: Stop!
Chrom: Lucina? What are you—
Lucina: I cannot allow you to go, Khan Basilio. You will die in this battle. I know it for truth!
Chrom: What?
Basilio: You know, lass, you have a strange way of saying good-bye. All right, then. Who is it? Who kills me? Is it Walhart himself? ...Please say yes. It'd make a poor song to die at the end of some farmer's pitchfork.
Lucina: ...Yes, it was Walhart. Or so goes the story I heard. We must change our plans so fate cannot take this course!
Basilio: All I needed to know. Thank you much, lass. ...I'll be careful.
Lucina: Y-you're still going? But I just told you—
Basilio: Aye, I heard you just fine. But someone still has to stall his division from advancing. If he's the one that kills me, well then, I'll just avoid confronting him. You don't grow this old and handsome without knowing how to avoid trouble.
Lucina: N-no! It's never that simple.
Flavia: Don't worry, love, he'll be fine. He'll have me to keep an eye on him.
Basilio: You aren't coming, woman! You're the reigning khan!
Flavia: I thought you intended to survive this, oaf. Regna Ferox has two khans, and now you're responsible for both. I dare you to die now!
Basilio: ...Har! Aha ha ha! All right, all right. You can come. ...Hope that's all right, Chrom.
Chrom: Just look after each other.
Flavia: Ha! I'll bring this big ox back on a leash if it comes to that.
Basilio: Luck and more be with you all. We'll meet again soon.
Lucina: But please, your future! You must—
Basilio: "Please," yourself! not another word. I fully intend to outlive all you sprogs—just see if I don't. And as for your "future," it can kiss my big brown Feroxi arse!

@End 
Basilio: Fall back and form up! Don't let them scatter us!
Flavia: Rrgh! Easier said than done... Their cavalry is riding right over us!
Basilio: We can hold our ground... I'll show you how a real Feroxi fights, woman!
Flavia: Ha! Did I hear a crack in your voice? Is that fear in your eye?
Basilio: Gah! Never! Let's give these kettleheads a taste of our barbarian roots!
Flavia: Now THAT'S the oaf I love! ...Huh? Enemy soldiers, there—

Basilio: They're swatting our troops like flies!
Flavia: Is it some kind of elite cavalry? No, wait... Gods! It's just one man!
Walhart: YOU THERE! Do you command these forces?
Basilio: Awww, crap!

Basilio: Haaarrrgh... Such...strength... Is he even human...
Walhart: ...Impressive. You're the first since Yen'fay to survive beyond a single stroke.
Basilio: I d-don't... I don't stand a chance... Flavia! Everyone! Run! Run for your lives!
Flavia: I'm not leaving you here!
Basilio: He's a demon, woman... I can only keep him...busy while you...escape... Hngh! ...D-damn... Looks like the lass was right...
Flavia: I think not! I'm here, and that means events can be changed! Damn you, oaf! You're not getting away from me that easily!

Flavia: Basilio!
Basilio: Nngh... Flavia... Give this to Chrom...
Flavia: Is this...the Gemstone?!
Basilio: You have to...survive... G-give it to him...
Flavia: Give it to him yourself, you one-eyed clod of a man! I'm not going anywhere and neither are you!
Basilio: Fool woman! I'm f-finished... Don't let it...be for nothing... For once in your life...just do what I say... Go! Go, gods damn you! GOOOOOO!
Flavia: BASILIO!
/***EOF***/
@Intro 
Lissa: It's beautiful...
Lucina: The divine dragon's power flows through every blade of grass here.
Chrom: Wait... Something doesn't feel right.
Robin: Nngh... We must prepare for battle! Grima has sent servants here. I can sense it. They'll be on us soon!

@Battle 
Lucina: How could Risen infiltrate this sacred place?
Chrom: Their power must be linked to Grima's. We must destroy them!

@End 
Chrom: We've made it—the altar. Wait here... I'll be back.
Lissa: Be careful, Chrom...
Lucina: We must believe in him, Aunt Lissa.

Chrom: Hear me, Naga! I bear proof of our sacred covenant! In the name of the exalted blood, I ask for the divine dragon's power! Baptize me in fire, that I may become your true son!

Chrom: Hrrraaagh!
Lucina: Father!
Chrom: I'm... I'm all right!
Naga: Be welcome, Awakener. Your heart has been tested and deemed worthy. Cleansed in my fire, your desire has proven to be the stronger.
Chrom: Then you will grant me the power to defeat Grima? ...The power of a god?
Naga: Yes. But know this: I am no god.
Lucina: But milady, you are the divine dragon!
Naga: So do sons of man name me. But I am no creator. I possess not the powers of making or unmaking. And neither does Grima. Neither of us bears the power to destroy the other utterly.
Chrom: Then what power can you grant me?
Naga: With my blessing, thou may draw forth Falchion's true might. The blade of the exalts shall again strike like the dragon's fang. Your strength will then be my equal.
Chrom: But not strong enough to destroy Grima?
Naga: Alas, Grima cannot be slain. Sleep alone can be your victory. Just as your ancestor put the fell dragon to sleep a millennium ago. But you must weaken him first. Only as the final blow can my power be used to bind his.
Lissa: Isn't there ANY way to destroy him for good?
Naga: There is, perchance, a power that could end Grima. However... 'Twould be his own.
Frederick: ...He has to kill himself?
Naga: Yes. And never would he do so of his own volition. He seeks only to add to his power, and set ruin upon the world. Now come. There is little time...
Chrom: Where is Grima now?
Naga: To the west lies a volcano known as Origin Peak. You shall find the fell dragon there.
/***EOF***/
@Battle 
Dalton: You dare board our ship, worm? I'll not discuss terms with a peasant; I will issue demands to all! Citizens! Soldiers! Hear my words! The Conqueror himself, Emperor Walhart, claims dominion over these lands! You will grant your new emperor your ships! You will grant him all your provender! You will grant him your loyalty and your every possession! And you will surrender this land's greatest treasure, the Fire Emblem! Do this, and your lives will be spared. Resist, and your lives are forfeit! Now, kneel! And swear fealty to the mighty Valmese Empire!
Villager: B-but if you take all that we have, how are we to make our living? Without food and ships, people will starve! Would you have us all die?
Dalton: ...You'll do for now.
Villager: Hrrgh!

Chrom: These savages will never listen to reason. Everyone: prepare to engage!
Frederick: Milord, are you certain? Another war...
Chrom: I've had time to ponder Ylisse's place in the world, Frederick. ...And my own. We must stand against evil, in all its forms, or there can be no peace!

Cherche: Might I join, sire? This may not be my country, but it is my cause. My dear Minerva here hungers for a bite of the action as well!

@Boss 
Dalton: You are nothing! A speck of sand on the boot of the great empire!

Dalton: What... H-how... Ahh...

@End 
Robin: Chrom, is that all of them?
Chrom: Yes, but victory's come with a price...
Basilio: The town is in shambles, as is my army.
Frederick: This is most troubling news. Feroxi soldiers are the finest east of the long sea. If they are having trouble, we are ALL in trouble.
Flavia: That's not the half of it. This was just the vanguard—but a taste of the meal yet to come.
Basilio: And once it arrives, their host will wash over the whole continent in a matter of weeks. There's no way we could repel them and defend our people. It would be a slaughter.
Chrom: Ylisse is no better equipped to handle an attack from the sea... Robin, what do you suggest?
Robin: Hmm... Their greatest strength is their cavalry, which puts us at a disadvantage... on land. But if we were to catch them at SEA...
Chrom: But how?! Ylisse has no warships, nor does Ferox.
Basilio: So we'd need aid from a kingdom that does...
Flavia: You have someplace in mind, oaf?
Basilio: Perhaps a land that borders the sea, with enough wealth to afford this campaign?
Robin: Plegia!
Chrom: No. Absolutely not. Out of the question.
Basilio: They have gold, boy! Countless ships! And more importantly, we have a fart's chance in the wind without them.
Flavia: The oaf is right. ...Crude, but right. There's only one path forward.
Robin: Chrom, will you reconsider?
Chrom: ...... ...Very well. Send a messenger and request a summit immediately. Let us pray this new king is more reasonable than their last.
Robin: Indeed.
Flavia: You know, Robin... For your first time against Valmese forces, that was an impressive victory. You and Chrom have both grown quite adept. You should be proud.

Frederick: Milord, we have word from Plegia. They have agreed to meet with us at their outpost on Carrion Isle. A poor venue should things go sour, as the island's name makes plain. But then I don't see we have much of a choice.
Chrom: Cautious as ever, Frederick the Wary. Don't worry. We'll get our ships. This threat hangs over all of us—Plegia as well. They must see that.
/***EOF***/
@Intro 
Chrom: *Sigh*
Robin: Chrom? What are you doing out so late?
Chrom: Oh, hi, Robin. Just... dueling with some unpleasant thoughts... Tomorrow we march to Regna Ferox to request additional soldiers. But there's something you should know first. ...Not everything Gangrel said was a lie. The last exalt, my father, waged war on Plegia for many years. The violence... It was a brutal compaign, ending only with his death 15 years ago. Plegia rightfully remembers their suffering, but his war was no kinder to his own people. As the fighting dragged on, out army became more and more diminished. Farmers who could barely wield a pitchfork were conscripted and sent to their deaths. Soon there was no food at all, and the kingdom began to collapse. I was young, but I remember those dark times. ...I know how they affected Emmeryn.
Robin: Such an experience would change anyone.
Chrom: Indeed. When our father died before her 10th year, he left her quite the legacy... Plegia's desire for vengeance... Our own people's unbridled rage... My sister became a target for blame on all sides. Her own subjects began to hurl insults—and stones. She still bears the scar from one... But she never let them see her pain. Only Lissa and I understood.
Robin: It must have been so hard...
Chrom: I cannot claim to know how she does it, Robin. I could not greet such hostility with warmth and patience. While our people mocked and vilified her, she reached out and healed them. She brought soldiers home to their families. She ended the war. And when Ylisse's spirit was mended and the people "forgave" her? ...She never resented them for it. She represents the best part of the halidom—the part most worth protecting. She IS peace. But some men would take advantage of that. Men like King Gangrel. The day he understands peace will be the day death gives it to him. ...So perhaps I must be death's agent. Emmeryn would never order him killed, nor would I wish her to.
Marth: Well spoken, sir.
Chrom: Marth...

Marth: Good evening to you.
Chrom: How did you get here?
Marth: The cleft in the castle wall, behind the maple grove.
Chrom: There? But how would you...? Ugh.
Robin: You know the place, Chrom?
Chrom: Yes. I bashed in part of the wall while training the Shepherds. It's only a small hole, and I'd thought it well concealed, but...
Marth: Your secret is safe with me. I come here only to warn you.
Chrom: Warn us?
Marth: The exalt's life is in danger.
Chrom: What, Emmeryn? That's absurd. She's guarded at all hours.
Marth: What if... What if I told you I have seen the future? Would you believe me? A future where Emmeryn is killed. Here. Tonight.
Chrom: Seen the future? Have you lost your wits?
Marth: Yes, I expected you wouldn't believe me. So allow me to prove it!

@Cutscene 
Marth: I'm about to save your life. ...From him.

Marth: I trust this proof will suffice?
Chrom: ...Yeah.

Chrom: Wait, you're—You're a woman?
Marth: And quite the actress, too. Honestly, I'm surprised you didn't figure it out until just now.

@Intro 
Validar: Remember, I want the Emblem in my hand and Emmeryn dead on the floor. Let nothing distract you from either purpose.
Assassin: As you will it.

Gaius: Woah, woah, did I just hear that right? We're to KILL the exalt? I'm just here for the plunder. You know, line my pockets with some royal goods. The exalt's such a sweet lady... Sure, I'll rob her blind, but I'd never harm her!

Chrom: Emm!
Emmeryn: Chrom! Take Lissa and flee while you still have time!
Chrom: No! We're not leaving you! Just stay where it's safe!
Robin: The assassins should scatter if we can defeat their leader.

Validar: Hmph! Two assassins and the little princeling was not even wounds? ...Wait. Some of these actors do not belong on this stage...

Validar: Ho ho! Can it be?! After years of searching... Tonight, fate truly piles gifts at my feet!

Marth: Falchion is gleaming...
Chrom: What's wrong?
Marth: It's not your concern.
Chrom: Seems like nothing ever is with you.
Marth: My apologies.
Chrom: Just stay at Emmeryn's door. We'll handle the killers.

@Battle 
Emmeryn: Chrom, please! Flee while you still can! You each have but one life, and I do not wish it weighed against mine!

@Recruit-Talk 
%Chrom,Panne
Panne: I knew there was wisdom in slipping in with those rogues. Look at how these man-spawn claw at each other like savages! I will repay my warren's debt and then wash my hands of their race.
Chrom: Another assassin?
Marth: Hold! Panne is not your enemy.
Chrom: You know her?
Marth: I know... of her. And I knew she would come here tonight.
Chrom: Quite the prophet, aren't you?
Marth: As you say. And I swear to you, Panne is an ally.
Chrom: ...Good enough for me. All right, Shepherds! For now, we leave this Panne character be.
Frederick: Is that wise, milord?
Chrom: Marth has earned our trust. She enjoys her secrets, I know. ...Like her gender, for one. But she's also saved our lives. Twice. And that's enough for me.
Marth: Chrom... Thank you.
Chrom: Now, to the matter at hand: driving these scoundrels from our castle!

%Chrom,Gaius 
Chrom: Drop your weapon, or die where you stand!
Gaius: Easy there, blue blood. I'm not here to hurt anyone.
Chrom: ...Yet you run with a band of assassins?
Gaius: Believe it or not, just trying to make a living. I'm a thief, see? Bust open doors, crack into chests... that kind of thing. This lot said they wanted to break into some kind of vault. Nobody said anything about murder. I'd just as soon sit this one out.
Chrom: Hmm... Then perhaps you'd be willing to prove your good intentions?
Gaius: Beg pardon?
Chrom: We need all the help we can get to save the exalt's life. You appear capable, and we could use any information you have about our foes.
Gaius: Oh, right—those good intentions. Fine then, I'll prove my sincerity... if you sweeten the deal.
Chrom: You want gold? ...Fine, you scoundrel. Let me just—oops.
Gaius: Looks like you dropped something. What's in the satchel, mmm?
Chrom: Nothing—candies from my little sister. I'm sure you--
Gaius: "Candies"? As in, sugar candies?
Chrom: Well... yes. I assume they'd be sweet? But--
Gaius: IT'S A DEAL!
Chrom: ...You'll risk your life if I give you... a bag of candy?
Gaius: I said "sweeten the deal", didn't I? Don't get me wrong, I'll take the gold, too. Later. Unless you've got more of these. ...Have you got more of these?!
Chrom: Um... I'll ask Lissa.

@Character-Falls 
Gaius: Nngh... Damn and double damn... I hate it when things... go sour...

Panne: I have misjudged the strength of these animals... I must fall back...

Marth: Nngh, no! I must keep fighting...or what purpose have I served?
Chrom: Marth, no! Stand down! You'll die if you don't! We'll keep Emmeryn safe, I swear!
Marth: All right...nngh... A-as you wish...

Emmeryn: Ah... I... Forgive me…
Chrom: Emm? ...EMM?! No, no, no, no, no! Oh gods, nooo! 

@Boss 
Validar: Emmeryn was supposed to be an easy target... You will pay for interfering in my designs!

Validar: No... This is... all wrong... How could... you have known the plan...

%Robin,Validar
Validar: Well, well... Ha ha ha! Oh, I know you... Submit to me, and perhaps I might honor you with the truth!

@End 
Chrom: Thank the gods you're safe!
Emmeryn: It is you I have to thank, Chrom.
Phila: I beg your forgiveness, milord! I failed in my duty—they should never have made it into the castle in the first place.
Chrom: Peace, Phila. You couldn't have known what was coming. Only Marth could...
Emmeryn: ...Marth?
Chrom: Yes, I would speak more with... Um... Robin, where's Marth?
Robin:  Hmm... An excellent question. She was here a moment ago...
Chrom: ...Not again!


Marth:  ...... 

Chrom: Going somewhere? You have a bad habit of leaving without saying goodbye, you know.
Marth: Yes, I'm afraid I have a few bad habits.
Chrom: Good ones as well—you saved my life, as well as both of my sisters. Is there some way I can repay you? Some favor I can grant?
Marth: Hearing you offer is reward enough.
Chrom: But there must be something...
Marth: I already have what I came for: history has been rewritten.
Chrom: And what future averted?
Marth: After the exalt's untimely assassination, the Fire Emblem would be stolen. This, in turn, would lead to a great war, and soon to the end of mankind itself. ...But I'm sure that sounds like madness to you.
Chrom: ...Strangely, no. It doesn't. Somehow I know I can trust you. And I hope someday to repay your favors.
Marth: Perhaps one day you shall. Until then...

Chrom: ......

Emmeryn: Brave taguel, there are not words enough to express my gratitude.
Panne: So you know our true name?
Robin: Sorry, what's a taguel?
Panne: I am a taguel. The... The last taguel. We are shape-shifters. Most of your kind calls us "beast" or "coney" in the midst of their hunt. I only helped because my warren owes Ylisse a debt. Do not think us friends, you and I!
Robin: I don't understand...
Panne: Yes, it's precious little your kind seem to understand. It was man-spawn like you that invaded our warren and slaughtered my people.
Emmeryn: What?! Is this true? Who would do such a thing?
Panne: Ha! Do not act so shocked. You are all the same. Right down to your base desire to ruin and destroy all your touch—even each other.
Emmeryn: ...There is truth to your words, perhaps. I'm told that, in taguel society, everyone is treated as an equal. Mankind could learn much from your warren. The words may come too late and mean too little, but I am deeply sorry. We have stolen your friends and family and made the world a lesser place.
Phila: Your Grace—you had no fault in this!
Panne: You claim to be blameless, and yet you would apologize? Pah! Your words are but wind.
Emmeryn: I know... But they are all I have.
Panne: ...You seem sincere, man-spawn. You feel my pain as your own. ...I've never felt that before. Look at me. ...See what I am. I will never trust mankind. But you... Perhaps you truly are not like the others.
Emmeryn: All I ask if a chance to earn your trust.

Validar:  Nngh... How?! My purpose is too significant... to be thwarted... here... Aaargh...

???: Validar.
Validar: What? Who are you... Where did you... come from?
???: I am the power that compels you. You will not perish here. It is not written. You must live on to author a destiny greater than you know.
Validar: I-impossible! It can't be you! It can't be...
???: I am the wings of despair. I am the breath of ruin. I am the fell dragon, Grima...

Phila: It will take time to investigate how the assassination plot got so far. We have no leads at present.
Chrom: It was Plegia! I'm certain of it. They'd do anything for the Emblem. Emm, you can't stay here. Come to Ferox where it's safe.
Emmeryn: And leave the people undefended? War is at our borders, Chrom. Do you expect Ylisse to stand against Plegia without a leader? They must know their exalt stands with them.
Chrom: But if something happens to you? What then?
Frederick: Your Grace, perhaps you might relocate to the eastern palace for the time being? The other kingdoms would know nothing of it. You would be safer.
Chrom: Yes, please. At least that. I can't leave for Ferox with you right in harm's way.
Emmeryn: ...Hmm. Very well.
Chrom: Thanks, Emm. I mean it. We'll escort you to the palace before we head north to the border.
/***EOF***/
@Intro 
Grima: WRETCHED SON OF NAGA... YOU WILL BE DESTROYED.
Chrom: Are you ready, Robin?
Robin: As ready as I will ever be, Chrom. Let's finish this!

@Battle 
Chrom: Hrrngh! *Huff, huff* ...Wh-what... What manner of magic...
Basilio: Magic? *huff, huff* That was a...damned...catastrophe... He's weakened us all... He's too...strong...rrgh...
Frederick: It cannot end like this... I won't have...all our struggle...be for naught...
Lucina: No... This darkness... The future is upon us! Oh gods... F-Father...
Grima: And so it ends, Robin. See how frail these human bonds of yours are? How short lived? How pointless? You have all thrown your lives away, and the result is the same!
Robin: We're not dead yet!
Grima: Details, details. *sigh* But yes, I suppose it's time I got you all off my back, so to speak—permanently.
Robin: No...
Grima: No, you don't want this, do you? You do have a choice, you know. It doesn't have to be this way. You can still save all your friends... Become one with me, and we shall spare their lives. ...Refuse, and watch as I rend the flesh from their bones!
Robin: ...I...
Chrom: No, Robin! Don't...do it...
Lissa: He's/She's lying... It's...a trap...
Grima: NOW! I will have your decision! Will you save these worms? Will you JOIN ME and become a GOD?
^start 
Robin: Do you think me a fool? You'll kill them anyway!
Grima: ...Well, of COURSE I would. I only thought you might want to leave your comrades with a heroic, selfless image. ...But so be it. Leave them with the final memory that you were their undoing!
Robin: Aaarrrrgh!
Chrom: Robin!
Robin: Where am I?
Grima: Where your god wills you to be. Now if you will excuse me... I have some fleas on my back to take care of.
Robin: No... I won't let you!

Robin: All right! I'll do as you wish! Just...let them live.
Chrom: No, Robin! Don't—
Grima: Yes, at last I have you... Once our power is joined... THE DRAGON'S MIGHT...WILL BE MADE WHOLE.
Robin: First, let my friends go... You promised to spare them.
Grima: Oh come now, we both knew that was never going to happen... But I am not altogether cruel... I did spare you the pain of damning them openly.
Robin: You...
Grima: In truth, I simply don't understand why you care so deeply for the creatures... No matter. Your soul is mine now; you cannot escape. Your mind will descend into the shadow of my own!
Robin: No... I won't let you!
^end 
Grima: You still DARE resist ME?! Then perhaps I should end you first!

@Dialogue
Robin: So dark... A sea of black... I have...no final strategy... No cards left to play... He/She has...won... Ah... I c-can't see... I can't hear... I feel...nothing... ...... ...Nothing... ......
???: ——ve to ————ack!
Robin: ...... ...Huh?
???: Yo— ha——— fi— back! ——ghting!
Robin: I...hear something... A voice...
???: Fight ba—! —ave to keep ——ing! Fight back, Robin! You swore to do so, remember? Now keep your damn word!
Robin: C-Chrom? Chrom! Chrom, I can hear you!
Grima: What?! No! You are mine now! The dragon's grip cannot be broken!

Lissa: Come back to us, Robin!

Frederick: I know it would take more than this to stop you, sir/milady!

Sully: You gonna let that ugly snake get the last hiss? Come on!

Virion: History is watching, Robin! The bards would sing of your triumph!

Vaike: On your feet, soldier! Don't make ol' Teach give ya a lecture!

Stahl: Wake up, Robin! Only I get to oversleep!

Miriel: Arise from your hypnopompic state! You are sorely needed here!

Kellam: Hello? Can you hear me? ...Perhaps if I shout? AAAAAAH!

Sumia: Robin, remember all the days we spent together!

Lon'qu: Answer us, Robin!

Ricken: Please, Robin! You're too important to me!

Maribelle: Get up right this instant, or suffer a swift smack of my parasol!

Panne: Do not rob the taguel of one of our last true champions!

Gaius: Up and at 'em, Robin! One dragon ought to be a piece of cake!

Cordelia: We're all right here by your side!

Gregor: Gregor will snap you out of it! Gregor does with the YELLING!

Nowi: I thought I was your favorite dragon! Forget about Grima!

Libra: The gods gave you to us. I do not believe they wish you taken away!

Tharja: Get up, Robin! No one goes down without my say so...

Olivia: Please, Robin! I still haven't shown you my new dance!

Cherche: Minerva wants you back, and so do I!

Henry: I know the darkness is warm and delicious... But too much of a good thing is just bad!

Lucina: You have earned my trust and my love, sir/milady. Now return to us!

Say'ri: Aye, awaken! You cannot leave now, with my debt to you unpaid!

Basilio: Pull it together, lad/lass! Death is overrated, believe me!

Flavia: You don't bow to dragons. You break 'em!

Donnel: I need ya to come on back, y'hear?!

Anna: Robin, you can't close up shop on us now! We still need you!

Owain: Heed not the dark's eerie call, friend! Summon forth the strength inside you!

Inigo: I can think of nothing worse than dying alone. ...No, seriously. I can't.

Brady: Come on, bud! No giving up now!

Kjelle: This is a test, and by the gods, you're gonna pass it!

Cynthia: Come on! You can do this! You need to fight with us!

Severa: If you don't come back, I'm never going to forgive you!

Gerome: We lost to the fell dragon once. Do not grant fate a second victory!

Morgan: Father/Mother! You mean everything to me! I can't lose you again!

Yarne: You're going to be okay, right? ...I need you to keep me safe.

Laurent: It is inconceivable that our rollicking adventures might end at this juncture.

Noire: Blood and thunder! Return to us now!

Nah: You'll return. I know you will.

Tiki: You are not Grima, nor is he you. Remember that, Robin!

Gangrel: One nip from a dragon and you're down? Get up, you craven schoolboy/schoolgirl!

Walhart: Rise, Robin! Show this god that man is made of sterner stuff!

Emmeryn: Robin... Robin... Robin!

Yen'fay: ...... ...Robin!

Aversa: Oh, Robin, no taking the easy way out—I haven't finished with you yet!

Priam: True champions find victory in the darkest hour! Show us, Robin!

Robin: I can hear them... I hear my friends!
Grima: Stop this at once! SILENCE those wretched voices! You are all powerless! Frail! Insignificant! You are NOOOTHING!
Chrom: Return to us, Robin! Your bond with us is stronger than even the fell dragon's might!
Robin: Chrom! I'm coming, Chrom! Hold on!

Naga: Children of man, take my power! Rise now, and face the fell dragon!

@Battle 
Naga: Hear my words, Awakener! Grima's servants will beset you to no end. Dispatch him as soon as you are able! Once the fell one is weakened, a choice will await you... If Chrom lets fall the final blow, Grima shall survive but return to his slumber...
Chrom: So be it.
Naga: If Robin strikes in Chrom's stead, both his/her life and Grima's are forever over. Only in this way may the fell dragon be destroyed for good and all.
Robin: ......
Naga: The final decision...is yours.

@Boss 
Grima: ...I AM...GRIMA... I AM...DESPAIR...

Grima: ...NNGH...AAAAUGHHH...
Chrom: Now, Robin! This is our chance! I'm going to finish it!

%Robin,Grima
Grima: ...RETURN TO ME... COME... WE ARE ONE...AND THE SAME...
Robin: ......

%Chrom,Grima
Chrom: I come to end you, Grima!
Grima: ...ARROGANT MORTAL... I AM THE END!

%Lucina,Grima
Lucina: I lost to you once, monster. I shall not lose again! Die now, that our future can live!
Grima: ... YOU CANNOT SLAY...WHAT MAY NEVER DIE...

@End 
Chrom: He's...he's finished. ...We did it! And without sacrificing the life of another friend! Can you believe it, Robin?
Naga: Grima has returned to slumber.
Robin: ......
Chrom: He may rise to threaten the world again, but he'll never destroy it. One such as I, or the first exalt before me... One will rise up to challenge him.
Chrom: Shepherds... Friends... The war is over! The fell dragon's era of chaos has been averted! The Risen will trouble our world no more! You all know that I'm a simple man, never one for speeches or song... But you need to know this... All that is good and brave in me and what I have done is because of you! We have weathered a sea of horror, but we did it as one. And, finally, we have come to the inviting shores of a bright future. Together.
Lissa: Wooooo! I can't believe we did it!

Frederick: Exceptionally well fought, my prince! At long last Ylisse can know lasting peace.

Sully: Nothing like kickin' the crap out of a dragon to make you feel alive!

Virion: Virion the Grimslayer... Ah, such a noble ring to it!

Vaike: Yes! We won! We won! We... Uh, hey—has anyone seen my axe?

Stahl: Anyone else hungry? Because I'm starving!

Miriel: Let the scholars remember: there is no weapon more proficuous than the heart!

Kellam: Hip hip hurrah! ...Huzzah? ...Hello? ...Anyone? ...Never mind.

Sumia: We owe our victory to the world's finest captain and prince!

Lon'qu: Laying it on a bit thick, aren't all of you? ...Well, I guess if any time called for it, it'd be now.

Ricken: Captain Chrom! How'd I do? I was great, wasn't I?

Maribelle: I never doubted us for a second! ...Well, maybe a half second.

Panne: The taguel have won more than peace... We have won a new clan.

Gaius: And so ends another contract. ...Sweet, sweet victory.

Cordelia: My good prince... My joy has no bounds...

Gregor: Today Gregor not be stingy! Treat everyone to special bear dinner!

Nowi: All this happiness is so contagious! I could just...c-cry! *sniff*

Libra: At last, we have won Exalt Emmeryn her peace...

Tharja: Stop grinning, you shameless fools! ...You want to make me smile, too?

Olivia: Today's dance will come from the heart!

Cherche: Whew! Quite a battle... Perhaps time to settle down for a spell.

Henry: Oh, NICE! I'm still bleeding in, like, twelve different places! Look at all that blood...

Lucina: It's over... I'm finally free...

Say'ri: Chon'sin's struggle has ended. Mercy on you all, my good friends.

Basilio: Har har har! We whupped 'em but good! Now, to feast! Bring the meat and mead!

Flavia: The names of Chrom and Robin will long be remembered in Regna Ferox.

Donnel: Look, Ma! Look, Pa! I done done it!

Anna: Well, it's back to business, I suppose. Drop by our shops now and again, okay?

Owain: Farewell, O dire beast! Now it's your turn to suffer in darkness!

Inigo: Huzzah! Now I'll finally have more time for the ladies...

Brady: Well, heck. We actually did it. We saved the world!

Kjelle: My long training has finally proven its worth.

Cynthia: Truth and justice win again! Woooooo!

Severa: I never doubted us. We were born to win.

Gerome: We have wrestled destiny itself into submission!

Morgan: Father/Mother! Now we have years to share stories with one another.

Yarne: H-holy moly! I might make it outta here alive after all!

Laurent: Well, how delightfully fascinating this all was.

Noire: Is... Is all the scary stuff over?

Nah: Our journey through time was worth it, wasn't it, Mother?

Tiki: The world has been plucked from the maw of darkness!

Gangrel: Really now, I just can't seem to die... Where's the messy end I was promised?

Walhart: I stand justified! Man alone is the ruler of his domain.

Emmeryn: Chrom... Everyone... Thank you...

Yen'fay: Say'ri, your strength has led this world back to light.

Aversa: I suppose an end is an end. ...But now how will I fill my days?

Priam: Our strength in body and mind have set the world on a better course.

Chrom: I know some of you will be returning home to your homes and families. This is good, though I will be most sorry to lose you. But ours is a fellowship that cannot be weakened by time or distance. As we walk toward a new and brighter future, let us think often on each other. And let's never forget what we have accomplished, here, today. Together.

Robin: ......
Chrom: Still feeling guilty, Robin?
Robin: Huh? Oh... Hello, Chrom.
Chrom: Don't bother trying to hide it. You're wondering if you should have sacrificed yourself.
Robin: How can I not question it? I could have ensured my bloodline never threatens us again. But instead...
Chrom: I won't lie: your death might have spared the world future grief. Perhaps. ...But I know for certain it would have robbed the world of someone very special.
Robin: I'm just one man/woman, Chrom.
Chrom: And the good you bring to the world will more than make up for it. You made the right choice, Robin. Everyone agrees.


@End
^locked
Chrom: ...Robin?! Wait, what—
Grima: ...WHAT...WHAT ARE YOU DOING?
Robin: For once, I'm glad you and I are the same. Now I can give my life to protect those I care for...
Grima: ...YOU WOULD...NOT DARE!
Robin: I would and I will. The evils you would visit on this world are unthinkable... In some way, I—we share the blame. It's only right we meet our end together!
Grima: ...NOOOOOOO!

Chrom: Robin! No!
Robin: Thank you, Chrom. For...everything... Tell the others...my last thoughts were of them... May we meet again, in a better life...
Chrom: Robin! No! Ah gods, NO!

Chrom: The war is ended, my friends. Never again will the fell dragon trouble our world. I owe you all far more than words can ever repay. Especially Robin, who gave himself/herself to save us all. To save all the worlds to come.
Lissa: P-poor Robin... *sniff* After everything he/she did for us...
Chrom: Don't cry, Lissa. We'll see him/her again. I'm sure of it. Remember what Naga said? That Robin would survive if our ties were strong enough. This isn't over. I believe Robin is out there...somewhere... And I'll find him/her. If it takes me the rest of my days, I'll find him/her...
Lissa: You're right! He/She has to be out there somewhere... And we'll find a way to bring him/her home. Even if we have to search every open field in this whole stupid world!

Frederick: I believe the same, my prince. Robin is too strong to simply disappear. It falls to us to look after the realm until he/she returns.

Sully: Robin had damn well BETTER come back! If that blasted dragon truly got him/her, I'll be the one breathing fire!

Virion: He/She made a noble sacrifice, and I know my nobility! And I know Robin shall someday return!

Vaike: Robin has gotta be out there somewhere... How do I know? Hey, you don't question the Vaike!

Stahl: I can feel it, too. Robin is out there waiting for us. Though I surely will miss him/her in the meantime...

Miriel: While statistically unsubstantiated, I have what laymen might call a "hunch." This hunch corroborates with most of the statements made thus far.

Kellam: Robin, I know you're out there... I know you're not gone... And no one knows more about being lost and found than me!

Sumia: I wish he/she could have stayed with us long enough to see me grow stronger... But all the more reason to work hard between now and his/her return!

Lon'qu: ...He/She lives. I know it. Some people just aren't the dying sort.

Ricken: If Chrom believes he's/she's all right, then so do I! Maybe I can work out some new magic to bring him/her home...

Maribelle: If he/she returns to us now, I might even consider making him/her tea. ...Myself. Do you hear that, Robin?! ME, making TEA! You should be honored!

Panne: Let us honor Robin's regard for his/her warren. He/She was a true taguel. And a true taguel would not leave family behind... I feel he's/she's out there!

Gaius: If Robin's anythin' like me, he/she won't check out just 'cause a job is done. Gotta collect on all the sweet rewards, right?

Cordelia: Too many times now have I watched loved ones give their lives for me... I must hold on to faith that this time will be different.

Gregor: Oy, Robin! You daring to make Gregor celebrate alone?! Gregor not rest until he drink you under table! Har har!

Nowi: *Sob* *sniff* Robin's not gone! He's/She's just...misplaced! I'll wait a thousand years for him/her if I have to!

Libra: Naga has a way of sending a ray of light into even the deepest darkness. May Robin find that light, just as he/she became that light for us.

Tharja: He/She had better march back here and try again! I only send people off on my terms! ...Or in a casket.

Olivia: There will be one less set of eyes on me as I dance... It feels wrong... Please come back, Robin! Please be out there somewhere!

Cherche: Minerva says she still feels Robin is of this world... Also that he/she smells delicious, but that's neither here nor there...

Henry: Hey, Robin, everyone's dying to see you alive. We're sick to death of death! That reminds me of a good one: two Risen, a wyvern, and a priest walk into a bar—

Lucina: We have won our future, but we are in debt to so many sad memories... I pray at least one of those sadnesses will yet be undone.

Say'ri: I swear my life and blade to defend this future you have won, Robin. If you can hear me, swear that you will help me do so!

Basilio: He/She did what he had to do. That's the mark of a true warrior! He'll/She'll be back. I'd bet my sweet brown arse on it!

Flavia: Bah! Leave it to Robin to take responsibility for all of us. If he/she cared for us that much, I hope he/she knows how we still need him/her.

Donnel: Thanks to you and the others, I was able to change... And I've got more changin' to do! I wants ya to see it.

Anna: You've done so much for me and all of my many, many sisters. You're an extra-special customer. ...I hope we meet again.

Owain: I feel a soul straight and true pulsing in the darkness. The hero...will return!

Inigo: No tears today. I know he'll/she'll be back. I'll just have to wait, and...try to smile...

Brady: I won't cry! He'll/she'll be back! I know it! And in the meantime, I'll write the finest song about him/her that ever was!

Kjelle: I am glad for our victory, but I wish it did not mean so sad a farewell... I still have so much to learn. Come back and teach me.

Cynthia: Now I know what it really means to be a hero... But heroes always come back to fight again...don't they?

Severa: Fool! Why did you sacrifice yourself?! I refuse to accept it! Return, Robin, or face my wrath!

Gerome: He/She showed me that I have a future. That destiny can be defeated. We have to believe that we can alter destiny once more and bring him/her back.

Morgan: Father/Mother... You can't leave me now. Not like this... I believe in you. Come back!

Yarne: All this death... No more! Please, you've... You've got to come back...

Laurent: The world is vast and full of potential unexplored! I shall devote myself to discovering that art which might reunite us.

Noire: No, this is all wrong... He/She can't be dead! He's/She's out there. We have to be patient and believe!

Nah: This is all wrong. We can't just leave Robin for dead. I'll wait until the end of time for his/her return!

Tiki: Robin put others before himself/herself. No one can question his/her character. But his/her work is not done. He/She is still needed here.

Gangrel: Damn you, Robin! I joined this fight to meet my end, not secure yours! I'll chase after you to the ends of hell...and if you're there, well I'll drag you back!

Walhart: How we die defines how we lived. This can be said of Robin. But I expect there are more pages yet to be written of a man/woman so nearly my equal.

Emmeryn: Robin... Come back... I need you... We...need you... This world...needs you...

Yen'fay: ...Robin. 'Twas a life lived grandly. ...... But was it lived to its end? I trow you are yet meant for more.

Aversa: What? Robin, dead before me? Preposterous! Return, my lord/lady, and you will have my service...

Priam: Robin could not have arrived at his/her decision easily. But I won't accept it. This can't be the end of his/her story...

Chrom: Robin has secured for us all the most precious gift: a future. Now it falls upon our shoulders to protect what was given. I vow to give my all to healing the damage this war has wrought upon the realm. When Robin returns, I want him/her to see what his/her sacrifice bought. Robin...if you can hear me... You will always have a place here with us. Remember that. Always.

@Cutscene 
Lissa: Chrom, we have to do SOMETHING.
Chrom: What do you propose we do?
Lissa: Uh... Uh, I don't know!...

Chrom: I see you're awake now.
Lissa: Hey there!
Chrom: There are better places to take a nap than on the ground, you know.  Give me your hand.

Chrom: Welcome back. It's over now.
^end
/***EOF***/
@Intro 
Chrom: At last, Valm Harbor. Hmm... It appears well fortified... Prepare the troops. We'll— Huh? What's that?
Frederick: An altercation? That woman—the Valmese dogs are running her down.
Chrom: Any enemy of theirs is a friend of ours. Come on!

@Battle 
Say'ri: *Huff, huff* Who is that? ...The Ylissean League! So they have finally landed!
Valmese: Over 'ere! We have 'er cornered!
Say'ri: Confound these wretched imperials!
Valmese: Don't let 'er get away!

Chrom: Our first priority is to hurry and save that woman.

Chrom: If possible, we should also visit the homes here to see how the people fare.

@Recruit-Talk
%Chrom,Say'ri
Say'ri: Prince Chrom of the Ylissean League! You have my gratitude!
Chrom: You know of our cause?
Say'ri: Of course! I would speak with you more—but first, perhaps...
Chrom: ...Ah, yes. Time enough for that once the fighting is finished.

@Visit 
Old Villager: Yes? Helping Say'ri, are you? Good, good! We need such bravery in these times. Here now, sell this at market and use the funds to arm your forces. I'd rather see you put it to use than have that tyrant steal it.

Maiden: There's no standing against the emperor! All who question him are slain on the spot. I am a refugee here... The dastard razed my entire village just for sport! If you truly mean to fight him, I'd have you take this. You can use it to heal the wounds of comrades from afar.

Villager: Oh, well, you don't look imperial, do ya! Care for a wee bit o' gossip? I hear tell of resistance movements all across the continent. Each one strivin' to end Walhart's cruel tyranny...but they're divided. Scattered. They say a beautiful swordmistress is tryin' to unite 'em! Cor blimey! Now, I've never even seen me this lady, but I wish to help her all the same. Should you find her, ask that she read this. It'll make her even keener with a blade!

Elder: (psst! Talk quietly now! The Conqueror has ears everywhere...Between us...I support the Resistance and all, but I'm not about to stand against him. If his men even knew I talked to you, they'd slice me open and wear me like a jacket! ...Er, but good luck to you, though!) ...... (Oh, fine. Here. Take this. Just don't tell anyone I helped you!)

@Boss 
Farber: Long live the emperor! Death to all who oppose him! 

Farber: I may fall...but we are legion... You cannot stop...the Conqueror... 

@End 
Say'ri: Mercy, friends! The tales of your strength were no exaggeration... I am called Say'ri, and I fight with the Resistance.
Chrom: So there is an organized resistance?
Say'ri: Aye, of sorts. Several groups formed to seek liberty for the states of Valm.
Chrom: I thought the emperor had stamped out all dissenters...
Say'ri: He tries, but we Resistance are a slippery lot. We strike hard and then vanish again into the dark of night. Even now rebels ride to the banner of dynasts across the continent. United, we could pose a veritable threat to Walhart. And so, for some time I have struggled to bring us together.
Flavia: What's stopping you?
Say'ri: Greed. Jealousy. Sloth. All the old weaknesses of man. The dynasts all would have freedom, but on their own terms. Some refuse to take up arms unless their territory is threatened. Others thrive under the Conqueror's heel and will not join unless there is profit in it. Liberty is a fine word, aye, but not always enough to rouse men from foolishness.
Flavia: I take it you're looking for a more convincing argument, then?
Say'ri: Just so, although my efforts thus far have met with meager success. I fear many distrust me because my brother fights for Walhart.
Basilio: Why does he support the empire?
Say'ri: Would that I knew, good sir. Yen'fay was a good man once, but he is my brother no more! If we meet on the battlefield, I would cut him down, same as any other imperial. Walhart is said to command a million men now. Perhaps more. Sooner or later he will stamp out the Resistance entirely, if we do not unite.
Lissa: Um, Chrom? Did she just say he has a MILLION soldiers?
Say'ri: Ha! And what are one million men against the Ylissean dogs of war?! You stopped a thousand of their ships, did you not? Your daring strategy has awoken and inspired people across all of Valm. Together I know we can yet unite the Resistance and break Walhart's grip! Help me, Prince Chrom! I beg of you!
Frederick: Milord?
Chrom: This is no easy thing you ask of me. I have my own causes: a halidom to save and a future to win.
Lucina: ......
Chrom: I know a great battle has been foretold, but is this it? How to know? Still, I admire your courage... Perhaps your mission is the best way to achieve mine. So yes, Say'ri. I will join your cause with my own. And if I'm wrong, it's my life on the line. ...As it should be. Now. What will it take to unite your people?
Say'ri: Well, I do have one idea...

Say'ri: Since ancient times, many of our people have worshipped Naga. More precisely, we worship the divine dragon's oracle, Lady Tiki. Though most know her only as the Voice. The Voice is trapped in her temple as Walhart's prisoner. But if she were freed...
Robin: The Resistance could unite around her. Where is the Voice being held?
Say'ri: There is a shrine built in the branches of the divine Mila Tree. She is confined there.
Chrom: Then we have our plan. Let's get to it!
/***EOF***/
@Dialogue 
Aversa: Greetings, Prince Chrom. Plegia welcomes you.
Chrom: Aversa!
Aversa: What can I say? It seems fate has designs for me yet.
Chrom: You serve the new king, then? This... Validar?
Aversa: I do.
Frederick: They say he worships Grima...
Aversa: Why yes, of course he is Grimleal. We are both believers. My liege often says it was his faith that got him through, after Gangrel's passing. It was a difficult time... But he kept order where there might have been chaos. We had meant to arrange an official visit to Ylisstol, but—Ah, here is my lord now.

Validar: An honor to finally meet you, sire. I am Validar, king regnant of Plegia.
Chrom: The honor is mine, good king. ...Is it possible we've met before some... Gods! It can't be.
Validar: Oh ho, I'm quite certain I would remember any encounter with Ylissean royalty.
Chrom: (Psst! Robin!)
Robin: (I know! He looks just like the assassin that came after Emmeryn...) 
Validar: And you must be Sir/Lady Robin.
Robin: You know of me, sire?
Validar: The whole world knows of Ylisse's master tactician! And indeed, I see the sparkle of wisdom in your eyes.
Chrom: (But we killed him, Robin!)
Robin: (I know but... The resemblance... it's uncanny...)
Chrom: (How could he possibly--)
Validar: My, the negotiations haven't even begun and already so much whispering...
Chrom: ...My apologies, King Validar. We meant no disrespect.
Robin: (Chrom? What should we do?)
Chrom: (Nothing for now. But stay close, and be ready for anything...)
Validar: Then let us get to it.
Aversa: Plegia can offer no soldiers, but will provide 800 warships and 200 transports. In addition, we would be pleased to fully fund the campaign against Valm.
Frederick: That is... surprisingly generous of you, milord. We could not ask for more, quite literally. You offer most all your assets...
Validar: I would give troops as well, but our army remains in shambles from the last war. I trust the gold and ships will suffice as a sign of our commitment to the cause?
Chrom: Of course it will. Thank you, King Validar.
Validar: The honor is ours, my prince. I look forward to building a strong bond between our two nations.
Chrom: As do I. Then, if there's nothing else? My men and I must hurry back to Port Ferox.
Aversa: Oh, so soon? But I have one more introduction to make.
Chrom: ...Yes? And who would that be?
Validar: A hierophant, the highest of his/her order in Plegia.

???: ......
Robin: ...So you lead the people in worship? We were just discussing religion earlier...
???: ......
Robin: ...I'm sorry, have I said something to offend you?
???: ...The heart still sleeps, but the blood flows through it. And the blood is strong...
Robin: ...Huh? Beg pardon, were you talking to me?
Frederick: Good hierophant, I would ask you to lower your cowl. In Ylisse, it is a courtesy expected of one in the presence of royalty.
???: ...... ...You are a long way from Ylisse, sir. ...But very well...

???: Is that better?
Robin: What?!
Chrom: By the gods!
Frederick: What matter of sorcery--
Robin: He/She looks just like... me.
???: My name is Robin. Oh, and that was YOUR name as well, wasn't it? What a strange coincidence...
Validar: Why that IS rather curious, now that you mention it... What are the odds? In any case, I believe we are finished here. We will let you be on your w--
Chrom: Hold just one moment!
Aversa: Milord?
Chrom: What is the meaning of this? Why do your hierophant and Robin--
Aversa: I'm afraid we've no time for such trivial matters now, Your Highness. We have aid preparations to attend to, and you have a long, hard journey ahead. Oh, and do be careful on your way back to Port Ferox. This time of year the highroads of Plegia can be quite treacherous...

Robin: ...... It's no use. I can't sleep. Who was that man/woman? How could he/she bear my same face?

???: Robin... Heed me, Robin...
Robin: Huh? Who's there?! T-there's no one. I'm alone...
???: Heed my call, Robin...

Robin: Nngh... This voice is... in my head? Who are you?! What's happening?!

Validar: Why do you close your heart to him, Robin?
Robin: V-Validar?
Validar: Have you truly forgotten?
Robin: You were... calling me... Augh! My head! Get out of my mind.
Validar: Heh heh. Such arrogance! You dare take such a tone... with your own father?!
Robin: ...My what?
Validar: You are of my flesh, but of sacred blood. You are to serve a glorious purpose! Search deep in your heart. You already know it is your destiny...
Robin: No... Get... out...
Validar: Why do you resist us, Robin? Your rightful place is at my side. Not wasting your time with these doomed servants of Naga! Give yourself to Grima! Let me join your strength to the fell dragon!

Chrom: Robin!
Validar: ...Pah! Not this one again... No matter. In time you will see the truth. And that is all it will be—a matter of time...

Chrom: Robin! Are you all right? I heard shouting.
Robin:  Nngh... Ahh... Ahh... I-I think so... Yes, Chrom, thank you. I'm... I'm fine.
Chrom: "Fine" is a poor choice of words! What's happened?!
Robin: ...King Validar, he... He spoke to me... in my mind. He said I was his... his son/daughter.
Chrom: What?! ...Is this true?
Robin: I don't know... But I also don't know it's a lie. Loath as I am to say it, I felt a... a strange connection, between us.
Chrom: Oh, gods... That hierophant doppelganger... Could he/she be the king's son/daughter, as well? Are you twins?
Robin: I... I'm sorry, Chrom. I can't remember... But if I'm being honest... it would explain much... I'm not even sure I want to know the truth of my past anymore.
Chrom: You are yourself, before you are any man's son/daughter. Remember that.
Robin: ...Thank you, Chrom.
Chrom: Can you walk?
Robin: Yes... yes, I think so.

Frederick: Milord, we are under attack! Risen have encircled the camp!
Chrom: But... we posted sentries! How did this happen?
Frederick: They made a stealthy approach, milord. I've never seen Risen behave like this. Either they are learning our ways, or someone is commanding them...
Chrom: Validar! This is his doing—I'm sure of it. Equip anyone who can bear arms, and tell them we fight for our lives!

@Intro
Chrom: Wh-what's that? A storm of... crows?! Gods, it's upon us!
???: CAW! CAW! Are you folks lost? Or perhaps a lost CAWs? Heh ha!
Chrom: Who's there?! Show yourself! Gods' breath, I can't see anything through all these damned birds! Shoo! Scat! Away with you!

Henry: What's wrong? CAW-strophobic? Nya ha ha! Oh, I slay me!
Chrom: Not if these Risen do it first! This is no time for japes! Hide yourself, boy!
Henry: You know, I thought you were all right... Turns out you're all FRIGHT! Nya ha ha! I'd wish you good luck killing these monsters, buuuuuut... They're ALREADY DEAD!
Chrom: We are well aware!
Henry: The ravens wanted me to give you a message. "Caaw... C-caw-caw." Roughly translated, it means... Hmm, now what was the human word for that again? ...Traipse? ...Tripe? Oh, TRAPPED! Right! ...They say you're trapped.
Chrom: We know, damn it! Gods... Where did they all come from?
Henry: Well, see, when a mommy zombie and a daddy zombie love each other very much... Nya ha ha!
Chrom: Perhaps I should save the Risen the trouble and silence you myself.
Henry: Hey, wait! I want to join your CAWs—I mean, I can help you! I know magic! What do you say... Birds of a feather and all that?
Chrom: Those robes... A Plegian dark mage? ...Why would you help us?
Henry: Oh, don't let all the joking around fool ya—I've got kind of a thing for killing. Most funny people do, you know. The two things must be linked somehow. Ever talk to a jester when he's off duty? Those guys are some sick dastards!

@Battle
Henry: Oh! Those ravens also said to keep an eye on those fortresses. If you're nearby when more monsters emerge, it could CAWs quite a stir!

@Boss
Risen Chief: Grrr...kill...prince... Bwaaarg!

Risen Chief: Kill...priiii...agh...

@End 
Chrom: That's the last of them. Gods, I thought it might nev--
Robin: Chrom, look out!
Chrom: Huh?! Ah!
Marth:  Father, no!

Marth: Thank the gods you're safe!
Chrom: ...You called me "Father."
Marth: Did I? I... ...Perhaps we might speak privately?
Chrom: Perhaps we should, yes.

@Dialogue 
Marth: I don't even know where to begin.
Chrom: I already know you're not "Marth," though I've nothing better to call you... But I'll ask nothing of you that you don't wish to reveal. Whoever you are, Ylisse owes you a debt beyond repaying.
Marth: Thank you, but... I think I would prefer you know the truth.
Chrom: As you wish.
Marth: Here. Look closely, and all will be made clear.

@Cutscene 
Chrom: That's the Brand of the Exalt... Lucina...

Chrom: You deserved better from me than one sword and a world of troubles. I'm sorry.
Lucina: Oh, Father! Father...

@Dialogue 
Chrom: ......
Lucina: ......
Chrom: Better, Lucina?
Lucina: Yes. Father... I'm sorry. It just all rushed back at once.
Chrom: Father...
Lucina: Should I call you something else?
Chrom: No, it's just strange to my ear. ...I like it.
Lucina: ...Father! Heh heh...
Chrom: Hah! Yes, it will take some getting used to!
Robin:  I'm sorry—Chrom?
Chrom: Hmm? Oh, Robin. What is it?
Robin: It's just that... You two are out here alone, and Marth is...crying. This is how ill rumors are born.
^start 
Robin: I trust you, Chrom, but is there a reason you and Marth need to be alone?
Chrom: Can we tell her, Lucina?
Lucina: Of course.
Robin: Lucina?!
Chrom: Robin, this is going to come as a shock, but... I'll just say it: This is our daughter.
Robin: ...What?! Have you gone mad?!
Lucina: It's true, Robin. Please, look closely. Prove it with your own eyes by looking into mine.
Robin: Ah! You have the Brand!
Chrom: The same Brand carried by all House Ylisse's bloodline.
Robin: Lucina's eye bears the exact same pattern...
Chrom: Do you see now?
Robin: ...No, no I can't say that I do. If this is Lucina, what has befallen our baby back at the palace?
Chrom: Nothing. She's fine.
Lucina: Your baby is right where you left her, and perfectly safe. I am from another time. A time that has yet to be.
Robin: You mean... the future?
Lucina: Yes, more than 10 years hence. After history takes a dark and most destructive turn...

Sumia: He loves me... He loves me not...
Chrom: Er, Sumia? Why in the gods' names are you shredding those poor flowers?
Sumia: I'm not spying on you! You can't prove that I am! Oh, gods! You brought... HER! *sniff sniff*
Chrom: Can we tell her, Lucina?
Lucina: Of course.
Sumia: Lucina? But wait, that's...
Chrom: Sumia, this is going to be something of a shock, but... I'll just say it: This is our daughter, Lucina.
Sumia: ...What?
Lucina: It's true, Sumia. I'm your daughter. Look closely and see for yourself.
Sumia: Y-your eye! It has the Brand!
Chrom: The same Brand carried by all House Ylisse's bloodline.
Sumia: This... This is...
Chrom: Do you see now?
Sumia: No, Chrom, I do NOT see! This doesn't make any sense! ...Wait. Is my Lucina all right? What did you do to her?!
Chrom: Peace, Sumia.
Lucina: Your baby is right where you left her, and perfectly safe. I am from another time. From a time that is yet to be.
Sumia: You mean... the future?
Lucina: Yes, more than 10 years hence. After history takes a dark and most destructive turn...

Maribelle: All right, Maribelle. Be calm, and handle this like a true woman of good breeding... Or just punch him in his cheating lying face! Grrr...
Chrom: Maribelle? You seem upset.
Maribelle: Oh, upset?! Upset, is it?! Is that why you're flocking to other women? And you brought her HERE! Why? Just to rub my nose in it?!
Chrom: ...I think we should tell her, Lucina.
Lucina: Of course.
Maribelle: Lucina? But that's...
Chrom: Maribelle? This may be hard to understand, but... This is our daughter.
Maribelle: What?! Now you're LYING to me?!
Lucina: It's true, Maribelle. I am your daughter. Here, look closely. Prove it for yourself.
Maribelle: ...You have the Brand!
Chrom: The same Brand carried by all House Ylisse's bloodline.
Maribelle: This is Lucina's pattern...
Chrom: You see now?
Maribelle: No! I DON'T! Did someone kidnap our daughter and...and...and ENLARGE her?!
Chrom: Peace, Maribelle.
Lucina: Your baby is right where you left her, and perfectly safe. I am her from another time. From a time that is yet to be.
Maribelle: You mean...the future?
Lucina: Yes, more than 10 years hence. After history takes a dark and most destructive turn...

Sully: Hyah! Kah! Yah!
Chrom: Um, Sully? Isn't it a little late to be practic-
Sully: You've got some nerve bringing that damn hussy around here! Now get her away from me before I start practicing on HER!
Chrom: ...I think we should tell her, Lucina.
Lucina: Of course.
Sully: ...Lucina? This trollop shares the same name as our daughter?!
Chrom: ...She IS our daughter.
Sully: This is cruel, Chrom. Cruel beyond words! Stop hiding behind your wild stories and admit your-
Lucina: It's no tale, Sully. It's the truth. I am your daughter. Look closely and see for yourself.
Sully: ...She has the Brand!
Chrom: The same Brand carried by all House Ylisse's bloodline.
Sully: It's the same as Lucina's... What the blood hell is going on here?!
Chrom: Sully, listen to me-
Sully: Did someone kidnap our baby?! Dastards! I'll rip their throa-
Chrom: Peace, Sully.
Lucina: Your baby is right where you left her, and perfectly safe. I am her from another time, a time that is yet to be.
Sully: You mean... the future?
Lucina: Yes, more than 10 years hence. After history takes a dark and most destructive turn...

Olivia: Oh, Chrom...I thought we would last forever! *sob*
Chrom: Olivia? Why are you crying?
Olivia: It's alright. She's beautiful, and your happiness comes first... WAAAAAAAAAAAH!
Chrom: We have to tell her, Lucina.
Lucina: Of course.
Olivia: Lucina? I don't understand...
Chrom: Olivia, this is going to come as a shock, but...I'll just say it, then: This is our daughter.
Olivia: ...Do you think I'm an IDIOT?!
Lucina: It's true, Olivia. Look closely. Prove it with your own eyes by looking into mine.
Olivia: Ah! You have the Brand!
Chrom: The same Brand carried by all House Ylisse's bloodline.
Olivia: Our baby's is identical...
Chrom: You see now?
Olivia: No, I...I don't understand any of this. What happened to our child? Is this some sorcerer's trick?
Chrom: Peace, Olivia.
Lucina: Your baby is right where you left her, and perfectly safe. I am her from another time. From a time that is yet to be.
Olivia: You mean...the future?
Lucina: Yes, more than 10 years hence. After history takes a dark and most destructive turn...

Chrom: Can I tell him/her, Lucina?
Lucina: All right.
Robin: "Lucina"? ...What are you saying?
Chrom: Robin, this will come as a shock, but... I'll just say it. This is my daughter.
Robin: ...No. Impossible.
Lucina: It's true, Robin. Here, look closely.
Robin: She has the Brand!
Chrom: The same Brand carried by all House Ylisse's bloodline.
Robin: Your daughter's is the same pattern...
Lucina: And she is still safe back at the palace, I assure you. I am her from another time. From a time that has yet to be.
Robin: ...The future?
Lucina: Yes, more than 10 years hence. After history takes a dark and most destructive turn...
^end

@Cutscene 
Woman:  What are you doing?! Run! Oh, gods! Run faster!

Lucina: I believe the woman you want... is ME!

Lucina: We can't let these things win.

Lucina: Now grab a sword... and FIGHT!

@Dialogue 
Robin: But why? What happens in the future?!
Lucina: The fell dragon, Grima, is resurrected. His roar is a death knell for man, a scream that silences all hope... Death everywhere...
Robin: Chrom? ...Our whole company? All of us? Dead?!
Lucina: ...Yes.
Robin: ...I...I don't know what to say.
Chrom: A tale that beggars belief, and yet the truth of it stands before us. She carries Falchion, my same sword. And the same sword the first exalt used to defeat Grima long ago.
Lucina: Your blade and mine are one, Father. It was... It was all I had left of you.
Chrom: [to Robin] There is only one Falchion, Robin. I believe her.
Lissa: Yeah, and so do I! Heck, I saw her COME from the future! She fell right out of the sky! I've never seen anything like it...
Lucina: Thank you, Aunt Lissa. Naga, the divine dragon, feared mankind would face Grima again. In preparation for that day, she devised a ritual. It allows one to return to the past and alter events already written. I made the journey with others, but... we became separated.
Lissa: Don't worry, Lucina. If they're out there, we'll find 'em!
^start
Robin: ...... My daughter...
Lucina: Yes, Robin. Your daughter.
Robin: You have grown into such a strong and beautiful woman... Chrom and I are truly blessed.
Lucina: Thank you... milady.
Robin: Will you not call me Mother?
Lucina: I... thought you might mind.
Robin: Of course not! I love you with all my heart!
Lucina: *Sniff* Oh, Mother...
Robin: You are the finest daughter a woman could hope for, Lucina.
Lucina: Mother... Oh, I've missed you more than you'll ever know...

Sumia: ...... Are you really my daughter?
Lucina: I swear on my life.
Sumia: You grow up... Er, grew up to be so strong... So beautiful...
Lucina: Thank you...Sumia.
Sumia: You don't want to call me Mother?
Lucina: I... thought you might mind.
Sumia: Of course not! I love you more than anything in the world.
Lucina: *Sniff* Oh, Mother...
Sumia: I am so very proud of you...
Lucina: I've missed you more than you'll ever know...

Maribelle: ...... Are you truly my daughter?
Lucina: Yes. I swear it.
Maribelle: I suppose it IS rather obvious. So strong and lovely...
Lucina: Thank you...milady.
Maribelle: What's wrong with "Mother"?
Lucina: I...thought you might mind.
Maribelle: Of course not, you fool of a girl! I love you, and have every intention of showing you off to everyone!
Lucina: *Sniff* Oh, Mother...
Maribelle: I couldn't be more proud of you.
Lucina: I've missed you more than you'll ever know...

Sully: ...... So you really are my daughter?
Lucina: I swear on my life.
Sully: Well, you turned out damn beautiful. And tough like me! Har!
Lucina: Thank you...Sully.
Sully: ...Sully?
Lucina: I... thought you might mind anything more familiar.
Sully: Why, so Chrom can take all the credit? Of course not! I love you!
Lucina: *Sniff* Oh, Mother...
Sully: C'mere, you. I'm so proud of you...
Lucina: I've missed you more than you'll ever know...

Olivia: ...... You're really...my daughter?
Lucina: Yes. I swear it.
Olivia: But you're so strong and beautiful...Nothing like me!
Lucina: Everything like you...milady.
Olivia: You don't want to call me Mother?
Lucina: I...thought you might mind.
Olivia: Mind? It would make me happier than anything!
Lucina: *Sniff* Oh, Mother...
Olivia: I love you, Lucina.
Lucina: I've missed you more than you'll ever know...

Chrom: I wish I could introduce you to Lu— er, yourself, back at the castle. I'd like my child to see the amazing woman she will become.
Lucina: Yes, and Mother! I would love to see Mother as well.
Chrom: Yes! She would be so happy! ...Er, after the initial shock.
Lucina: I've missed you both so much, Father. ...So very much.
^end
/***EOF***/
@Intro 
Chrom: ...Where is his army?
Frederick: No sign of them yet, milord.
Robin: Hmm...
Flavia: I don't like it. They could be buying time...
Lissa: ...Buying time waiting for what?

Excellus: Tya ha! The fools have no idea what they've just stepped into! Eee hee!
Cervantes: Mmm, the anticipation before a battle. My hairs stand on end—every one of them! Makes it difficult to brush, if I may say... But today's struggle will set the course of history, once and for all.
Excellus: Today's "struggle," Cervantes? I think you mean today's SLAUGHTER.
Cervantes: That's the spirit, tactician!
Excellus: Wha—No! *sigh* I JUST finished explaining this to you. What is wrong with your ears?! The Resistance will destroy itself—you and I needn't so much as lift a finger. The Ylissean League thinks the dynasts no longer fear us... But they don't understand how...persuasive my methods can be! Hya ha ha! They'll know once they see their former friends with knives to their backs!
Cervantes: Chives and flapjacks, you say?
Excellus: The battle is won before it's started, and without us risking any further casualties! Hya ha! Brilliant, if I do say so myself. And really, no one else is capable of judging... Ah well... Tea, Cervantes? I have a stash of gray-root blend here...simply divine...
Cervantes: Why Excellus, thank you. It IS quite a divine 'stache, isn't it, eh wot!
Excellus: You imbecile! "Stash"! The tea! The— Oh why do I even bother! *Sigh* If only there were someone with the intellect to appreciate my talents...

Walhart: Cervantes.
Cervantes: Y-yes, my master!
Walhart: Who is the pinnacle of man, in body, mind, and spirit? Who is greater than the gods?
Cervantes: Only you, my master!
Walhart: Well, Excellus, that seems to contradict your last statement. What say you?
Excellus: ...M-my master! I assure you, I meant no offense! I only celebrate achievements in your service, master. To your glory.
Walhart: Glory is won on the battlefield! Glory is meeting your enemy's eyes and watching the hope drain away with his life... Glory is not won holed up in a castle with plots and cowardly schemes. And I'll be dead before I let some dynast farm lord take today's glory in my stead.
Excellus: Oh, why yes, of course! And so well put, my master, hya ha... I only meant that—

Cervantes: That sick mind of yours sees much, Excellus. That much is certain. But for someone so clever, you really can be quite daft.
Excellus: What?! You DARE speak to me like some child? ...Like your EQUAL?!
Cervantes: Ta ha ha! Your equal? No, fear not. I will never think of you as my equal, worm. Now if you'll excuse me, I would shave and wax up before the fight...

Excellus: Broom-faced twit! To hell with him...with the both of them! ... *Sigh* Now, Excellus, keep your wits about you. They're all you have...besides good looks. Let Walhart charge ahead—the big, stupid lobster... I'll end up on the winning side one way or another! Whee hee hee hee!

@Battle 
Chrom: That's him, isn't it? Walhart... Brave of him to face us.
Say'ri: Brave? Aye. But more likely he just wants to enjoy this himself.

Walhart: You do your sister's legacy proud, Prince! But humanity already has a savior. A conqueror who broke stronger men that you when they refused to bow. Warriors of Valm! Ride with me now! Together we will stamp out this final pack of insurgents and unite the world!

Walhart: Call in the reinforcements! Let the cavalry rain upon them like a blizzard of swords!

@Boss 
Walhart: Behold: I am Walhart the Conqueror! And you are but a pebble upon my path to immortality. 

Walhart: Nngh... You think you have won? You blow as if to douse a candle, but you only stoke the fires of hell!

%Chrom,Walhart
Walhart: Why do you resist me, little Prince?
Chrom: You enslave the weak and kill the able. You are the enemy of peace.
Walhart: I would end the reign of the gods, and you object on moral grounds?! Blood is spilled in any new birth, Prince. And in many a just cause, as you know...
Chrom: There is no justification for what you've done.
Walhart: By whose laws do you judge me? Yours? Your sister's? The gods'?
Chrom: You cannot—
Walhart: Look at you! Are you not ashamed? Your mind is filled with nothing but secondhand beliefs. You dance upon the stage of your gods like a mindless puppet! THAT is what I reject: being a slave to tradition, to obligation. The old ways. Damn the gods! Damn their fates and their destinies! I will have true freedom! Any man who offers less is my enemy.
Chrom: Enough! I don't require every detail of your twisted philosophy. You're a villain and a murderer, plain and simple. And I am the justice you deserve.
Walhart: Ha ha ha! Better, Prince. Much better! Be not an agent of someone else's justice, but justice itself! Now, let us fight as two great men, freed of their gods. I grant any challenger the chance to test his will against my own... But you, too, shall be found wanting!

%Say'ri,Walhart
Say'ri: Walhart!
Walhart: Hmm? The princess of Chon'sin? It's a wonder you still live.
Say'ri: I have survived your gauntlet of betrayal and death, tyrant. Shall I describe to you now the searing pain of it all? The torture of watching friends, family...my entire kingdom perish? The fresh hell of each new day, with no respite in sight?
Walhart: Pain is a concern of men. And respite? Beg that from your gods. Your concerns are not mine. I have risen to a higher plane of existence.
Say'ri: Then today you come crashing down to the hell you've made of this one.

@End 
Say'ri: Walhart has retreated into the capital! Fie, will this war never end?!
Chrom: His men gave their lives to secure his escape. They won't lay down arms until he does.
Lucina: Then we must pursue and see that the deed is done.
Chrom: Damn! We're surrounded! The dynasts ride against us!
Say'ri: Hold, sir—look!

Excellus: H-he lost? But how...? How could the Conqueror be conquered?! He's insurmountable! Incontestable! Invincible! ...But then that means... Oh my... Good-bye, then! Do see to it that—
Walhart: Going somewhere, tactician?
Excellus: M-master! I... I was just coming to make sure you were all right. Are you hurt?
Walhart: Rally our forces in the capital. We will put an end to this here.
Excellus: At once, my master. Only... Have you considered, perhaps, waiting just one day? I do have the dynasts and their men on the way. With them to help us, we—
Walhart: Have you seen the battlefield? No, I suppose not. Take your head from wherever it's lodged, and peer out into the daylight, snake. I'm sure your mighty intellect will quickly understand what's happened. Though if you had half the mettle of that Ylissean tactician, you'd already know...

Excellus: M-Master, I don't—
Valmese: The dynasts, sir! From the southlands! They are making to siege the capital!
Excellus: But that's...that's impossible. We had an agreement! Just like I had with... Oh dear... The southern dynasts... Did they find out about Yen'fay?

Say'ri: This...boggles the mind...
Chrom: Do you recognize them?
Say'ri: Aye, sir. They're from the southlands... States that betrayed us for the empire. ...Or so I thought.
Flavia: Well, their allegiance seems clear enough now.
Say'ri: I can hardly believe it... Theirs are the lands my brother commanded. Finally, now, they come to answer the call?
Flavia: Finally is right. It's taken a lot of hard work to get here, Say'ri. A lot of sacrifice. From you, from Basilio, from your brother. Don't forget this moment.
Say'ri: Aye, my lady. Aye.
Chrom: Now, let us finish what we began. To the capital, friends!
/***EOF***/
@Intro 
Gangrel: What's this, then? The exalt herself, in all her radiance? I fear I must shield my eyes! Bwa ha ha ha!
Emmeryn: King Gangrel, I've come for the truth of this unfortunate incident between us.
Aversa: The truth? I can give you the truth.
Emmeryn: Perhaps milady might first share her name?
Aversa: You may call me Aversa.
Emmeryn: Very well, Aversa. Is Maribelle unharmed?
Gangrel: Who? Oh yes, that little blonde brat.

Maribelle: Unhand me, you gutter-born troglodyte!
Lissa: Maribelle!
Maribelle: Lissa? Darling, is that you?
Aversa: This girl crossed the Plegian border without our consent. And what's more... She wounded the brave Plegian soldiers who sought only to escort her safely home.
Maribelle: LIES! You speak nothing but lies, hag! Did they not teach the meaning of the word "truth" in wretched-crone school?!
Aversa: ...You see? No manners at all. Such a nasty little bird simply had to be caged.

Gangrel: Such a violent temper speaks to her guilt. This will call for a weighty punishment. And if she were to later confess to being an Ylissean spy? My goodness! It would take an act of CONSIDERABLE good faith to repair our relations.
Maribelle: I have done nothing wrong! It is they who should confess! They are the ones who invaded Ylisse. They razed an entire village! When I attempted to intervene, they took me and dragged me across the border. Let the plundered shops and charred homes of that village serve as my proof!
Gangrel: That would only prove Ylisse has a bandit problem—something I hear oft of late... But indeed, tonight I shall weep salty tears into my pillow for your dead villagers.
Maribelle: Your Grace, please!
Emmeryn: Peace, Maribelle. I believe you. King Gangrel, I request that you release this woman at once. Surely you and I can sort out these affairs without the need of hostages.
Gangrel: Without so much as an apology? Why should I even bother with parley? I'm within my rights to have her head this instant and be home in time for supper.
Chrom: You black-hearted devil!
Gangrel: Control your dog, my dear, before he gets someone hurt.
Chrom: Rrgh…
Gangrel: Now then, Your Graceliness. Perhaps we can arrange a trade? You give me the Fire Emblem, and I return Mari Contrary here in one piece.
Emmeryn: You would ask for Ylisse's royal treasure? But why?
Gangrel: Because I know the legend! The Fire Emblem is the key to having all one's wishes realized. I have desired it for years. YEARS! ...Yet my birthday comes and goes each year, and nothing from Ylisse. Heheh…
Emmeryn: The Emblem's power is meant for a single purpose, King Gangrel: to save the world and its people at their hour of most desperate need. Would you claim a more noble wish?
Gangrel: I want what every Plegian wants—a grisly end for every last Ylissean! What could be more noble than that?
Emmeryn: What?
Gangrel: Surely you have not forgotten what the last exalt did to my people? Your father named us heathens! His "crusade" across Plegia butchered countless of my subjects and my kin!
Emmeryn: ...I have never denied Ylisse's past wrongdoings. But I have sworn to never repeat those mistakes. Ours is now a realm of peace.
Gangrel: Yours is now a haven of hypocrisy! Now give me the Fire Emblem!
Maribelle: No, Your Grace! I'd sooner die than act as a bargaining chip for this filthy reprobate!
Emmeryn: No, Maribelle…
Gangrel: Ugh... Taaaaaalk talk-talk-talk-talk. It's time to speak louder than words! This negotiation is over, Your Luminosity! I shall have the Emblem if I have to pry it from your shiny dead hands!

Chrom: Stay back! Or you'll all suffer the same fate!
Gangrel: Now that's a declaration of war if I've ever heard one... A big, messy war that will bleed you Ylisseans dry. Bwa ha ha!

Aversa: Poor, stupid girl... Are you really worth fighting a war over? Years from now, you'll be remembered only as she who destroyed House Ylisse.
Maribelle: No... That's not... Oh, Lissa... Please, no…

Aversa: ...?!
Ricken: Maribelle! Go! You're free!
Maribelle: RICKEN?! What are you doing here?
Ricken: Just run! We can talk about it later!
Aversa: Oh, is this your little boyfriend? Isn't he just precious.
Ricken: Don't talk down to me, witch! 
Aversa: Nngh! W-wind magic?
Ricken: Come on, Maribelle!
Maribelle: Right!

Aversa: Wretched whelp! I should... No. Our soldiers have them outnumbered. The brats will be dead long before they can reach their comrades.

@Battle 
Gangrel: Bwa ha ha! I have my war! Captain Orton! Remain here, and take down as many Ylisseans as you can. You can expect reinforcements from the forts as well. Now, do your best—at doing your worst! Bwa ha! 

@Boss
Orton: I won't ask for your name. Only your life!

Orton: This matters not. Soon war will be upon...your soil... Heh heh...

@End 
Lissa: Maribelle! Are you hurt?!
Maribelle: Nothing I didn't return twofold, darling.
Robin: I'm glad you're safe.
Maribelle: Who...? Oh. It's you.
Robin: Yes. I know you're not especially fond of me, but it's a relief just the same.
Maribelle: Oh, it's not a question of fondness. I am simply protective of Lissa. My treasure is very sensitive, and... Wait. Am I really justifying myself to a commoner? Gods... Yes, well, I do...apologize for being curt. And... And... And you have my thanks for your part in the rescue. There, I said it!

Chrom: Forgive me, Emm. I acted rashly.
Emmeryn: It's all right, Chrom. King Gangrel is the one at fault here. You were only protecting me.
Frederick: The Mad King will be rallying his forces, if they have not mobilized already. I suggest we make haste back to Ylisstol and discuss our strategy.
Emmeryn: Of course, Frederick. It seems war is upon us. We must protect the Ylissean people at all costs.
/***EOF***/
@Intro
Lissa: Ugh, my poor feet. I've got blisters the size of eggs!
Chrom: Oh, it's not so bad, Lissa. Just a healthy little stroll! How are you holding up, Robin?
Robin: My legs feel like pudding... Your endurance astounds me, Chrom.
Chrom: Hah! Should I carry you?
Lissa: You can carry me! ...No, seriously. I would really be okay with you carrying me.
Hierarch: Hmm…
Frederick: Is something troubling you, Hierarch? You keep glancing up at the peaks.
Hierarch: Hmm? Oh, I'm just a b-bit nervous I'm afraid. Gh-ghastly times, these!
Robin: Chrom, who is that?
Chrom: The hierarch? He's been a friend of House Ylisse for many years. He guided Emmeryn during the early years of her rule. Why do you ask?
Robin: I can't quite put my finger on it, but something feels…

Plegian: Grah ha hah! Time to die, princey!
Chrom: Plegian soldiers? Damn! How did they know we were here? Everyone! Prepare for battle!

@Battle 
Vasto: *Sniiiiiiff* Ahhhhhhhhh... Smell that, men? The winds of fortune are blowing our way!

Hierarch: Hold, sir! I am the man King Gangrel told you about! Did you not receive orders to take me into your protection?
Vasto: I've orders to protect a man, true... But I see no man here! ...Only a pig! A rasher of traitorous bacon that sold out his own sovereign! And what do we do with little piggies, mmm?
Hierarch: Well, you... I mean, perhaps... You let them go free?
Vasto: Oh, are you a chicken now? Bawk bawk! We've a whole barnyard in our midst! Well, it don't matter what you are. The axe will fall just the same!
Hierarch: Eeeeeeeeeeeek!

Vasto: Right! Now for the main event. By moon's end, they'll be erecting statues of me in the capital! Ho there! Ylisseans! Give me the Fire Emblem and your wench of a ruler, and spare yourselves a gory end!
Chrom: Phila, take Emmeryn to the rear of the column. We'll fend off these blackguards!


Cordelia: Huff, huff...* No! Plegians here as well?! Prince Chrom! Captain Phila! Beware! Enemy reinforcements to the rear! They'll be upon us soon!
Phila: Is that... Gods, Cordelia?!
Robin: Cordelia?
Phila: She's one of my knights. Young yet, but quite gifted. But she was stationed on the border... Why...? Oh, gods! Could it mean...?

@Character-Falls
Cordelia: Nngh! Curse me, I am weak! I must retreat...

@Boss
Vasto: I'll splatter you across the canyon floor!

Vasto: You doves think...killing me will change anything? Heh... Even now, my brothers storm across your precious border... Go on, dear exalted coward! Run! Flee while they slaughter your subjects! Save yourself... Let their faith in you...bleed away...with the rest...

@End 
Chrom: ...They're gone.
Cordelia: Your Grace! My prince! Run! As far and fast as you can! More Plegians are coming, not a half day's march behind you!
Phila: Cordelia, what are you doing here? ...Tell me the border remains secure!
Cordelia: That I could, milady! But it would be false... Gangrel himself led his might against us! The end was upon us when my knight-sisters begged me fly and warn the exalt... I should have stayed... I should have stayed! Ah, gods, I can still hear the screams…
Phila: Peace, Cordelia. You did your duty. The sisters rightly prized your youth. You've many years yet to keep their legacy alive.
Cordelia: But I abandoned them! I'm weak... Their legacy deserves better.
Phila: Sometimes fleeing takes the most courage. They knew that. Now pull yourself together. Let the faith they showed in you give you strength.
Cordelia: Captain Phila, I... How can I go on like this? They were my...my family... *sob* Gods... Oh, gods… 
Chrom: Damn those monsters!
Emmeryn: I must return to the capital.
Phila: Your Grace, I cannot advise—
Emmeryn: I should never have left. If it's discovered I'm away when this news comes to light... The people could panic. Riot. More Ylisseans could needlessly die. Here, Chrom. I entrust this to you.
Chrom: The Fire Emblem?
Emmeryn: Take it to Ferox—to safety.
Chrom: And leave you? No, Emm.
Emmeryn: No part of House Ylisse matters more than the Emblem. It possesses tremendous power. But too much blood has been shed over it already. I hope it finds a better guardian in you than it did me.
Chrom: Emm, come on. You can't... Don't talk like that! You sound like you're ready to give up…
Emmeryn: I am not giving up, Chrom. I am only giving what I can.
Chrom: Emm, please! This is madness!
Lissa: Sis, wait! Let me go with you!
Emmeryn: Stay with Chrom, Lissa. I command it.
Lissa: This isn't fair! It's not fair! I know our people need you, but we need you, too!
Emmeryn: Dry your tears, love. This is not good-bye.
Phila: Your Grace, the pegasus knights will accompany you to Ylisstol.
Emmeryn: Very well, Phila. Thank you.
Frederick: I will keep the prince and princess safe, Your Grace. You have my word.
Emmeryn: I know you will, Frederick. Thank you.
Frederick: It is my honor.
Phila: Cordelia. You will stay here with Chrom.
Cordelia: But, Captain—
Phila: I know your heart is heavy, but this is how it must be. Your knight-sisters will be with you in spirit, wherever you go.
Cordelia: ...May they give me strength. As you command, Captain. I will pray for your safety.
Emmeryn: Come, Phila. We must go.
Chrom: No! You don't have to go! This is absurd!
Emmeryn: Chrom, you don't—
Chrom: Walking to your own death will not bring peace to anyone! Ylisse needs you. WE need you! Be selfish for once in your life!
Emmeryn: ...... I love you, Chrom. Both you and Lissa are my everything. As for the peace I seek... You cannot see who it is for. I have to go. I'm sorry—I truly am. Let us embrace again in Ylisstol when you arrive with Feroxi reinforcements. I know you will come.
Chrom: ...This is a terrible plan.
Emmeryn: The blood of the first exalt flows strong in us. You and I will keep Ylisse safe. I believe it with all my heart. Safe journey, Chrom. Safe journey, Lissa.

Chrom: Emm... Emm?! Ah...

@Dialogue 
Lissa: B-but she's safe inside the castle, right? Phila and the others will protect her! And Khan Flavia is assembling her best troops as we speak. We'll make it back home in time. I know we will!
Chrom: ......
Lissa: Chrom? Say something! Say, "Yes, of course we will!"
Chrom: ...I'm sorry, Lissa. What?
Lissa: Ugh, fine! Never mind! Let me know when you get out of your own head for a second!
Chrom: ......

Sumia: Snap out of it, Captain!

Chrom: OW! ...What the hell was that for?!
Sumia: Oh no! ...Did I do it wrong? Captain Phila said sometimes a good slap will break someone out of their doldrums.
Lissa: Sumia, when you slap someone, you do it with an open palm. You just punched Chrom in the face!
Sumia: Um... It's the thought that counts?
Chrom: Gods, that seriously hurt…
Flavia: Ha ha! What's wrong, my dear prince? Sometimes love hurts! You're lucky to have strong women like these, and not just dainty flowers about. In any case, I bring good news. The Feroxi army has finally mobilized. Every last man is itching to fight. I must say, I'm looking forward to savoring a skirmish or two myself.
Chrom: ...Wait. You're coming along?
Flavia: Of course! A khan must have her fun. I'm even bringing my insignificant other.
Robin: Your who?
Flavia: Basilio. The oaf isn't good for much, but he might stop a few stray arrows.

Basilio: Chrom! Good gods, I've been looking for you everywhere!
Chrom: Is something wrong?
Basilio: Our scouts have reported back. Dark news, I'm afraid... Ylisstol...has fallen.
Chrom: What?!
Basilio: The Plegians captured your exalt and retreated back across their lines. Gangrel has declared she's to be publicly executed within the moon.
Chrom: E-executed?!
Lissa: Ooooh…

Robin: Lissa? Lissa!
Flavia: The dastard's not even trying to be subtle anymore.
Robin: I agree. It's an obvious trap.
Basilio: The Mad King knew our scouts would relay this information back. It's clearly a provocation—a hot brand to the buttocks! We should consider our options carefully before jumping to any—
Chrom: Shepherds! We march to Plegia!
Basilio: *Ahem* Well, that would be ONE option, yes... But perhaps we've seen enough royalty waltzing into traps for one war already, eh?
Chrom: I don't care if it's a trap, Basilio. He's going to murder my sister!
Flavia: Peace, Chrom. Breathe a moment. No one's suggesting we don't act. We're simply saying we should act WISELY. We'll need guts AND wits in equal measure if we're to save your sister.
Robin: The khans are right. I'll think of something, Chrom. I promise.
Chrom: ...All right, Robin. I leave it to you to formulate our strategy.
Flavia: Are you certain you're up to the task, Robin? It won't be easy. You hold the exalt's life in one hand, and all of ours in the other.
Robin: A responsibility I do not take lightly. But I am equal to the challenge.
Flavia: Ha ha! You've got stones, at least. I like that!
Basilio: No hesitation, no mincing words... He's/She's either a genius or a fool! I suppose we'll find out once we march. Hold on to your tassets, Ylisseans. We've an exalt to save!
/***EOF***/
@Intro 
Excellus: Th-they... There must be several hundred thousand soldiers out there! Would they dare...?! Is it... Is it possible... Is it possible it was Yen'fay they feared all along, and not me?!
Walhart: Without him to back it up, your threat was only the grand shadow of a tiny spider.
Excellus: Tiny spider, is it? Well this spider has woven other webs in secret you could not even—
Walhart: You mean how you blackmailed Yen'fay to keep his loyalty? Or perhaps your correspondence with the Plegian woman...Aversa, was it? Yes, I know you have designs on the Fire Emblem... You have no secrets from me, worm.
Excellus: B-b-b-but... I... I don't... If you...knew all of that...w-why...
Walhart: Why haven't I killed you? ...I've asked myself the same thing, several times... But you're no threat to me. And I admit, you have your uses. Besides, I'm not one for court jesters, but you do...amuse me.
Excellus: Amuse you? I AMUSE you, like I'm a jester?! Are you AMUSED now? With a million swords at your door, come for your head?! You've lost! Lost, and you are going to DIE! All of you, ALL OF YOU! But not me! I want no part of this suicide!
Walhart: ...Why, Excellus, did you just volunteer to lead my personal guard against the rebels?
Excellus: ...What?! No, that's—
Walhart: Unless you'd rather fight me. Right here. RIGHT NOW.
Excellus: Mercy! Mercy! F-forgive me, my master! A moment's madness only—it will not return!
Walhart: Then it's settled: we have our new captain of the guard. Congratulations, Captain. You'll be right at my side until the fray is upon us. (Walhart leaves)
Excellus: *Pant, pant, pant, pant*
Cervantes: Do give our guests a warm welcome, snake. Perhaps offer them some of your tea? Hah hah... My equal... Pah! (Cervantes leaves)
Excellus: ...They forget who I am. I could have fried them both where they stood with my magic! We will crush these rebels... We MUST crush these rebels... Or maybe...if Walhart is sufficiently injured...I might "amuse" him with a spell... Nya ha, either way, this spider crawls out alive! Eee hee hee hee!

@Battle 
Chrom: I see Walhart, still seated in his throne room. It doesn't seem like he's thinking about escape.
Robin: And his soldiers... They look ready to die before they'd surrender. One must admire their loyalty, at least.
Chrom: He does inspire that in people. It's part of what makes him so dangerous.
Robin: He inspires that in SOME people.
Chrom: Yes, in some. But not me.

Soldier: Rally every last man! We make our stand with Emperor Walhart!

@Boss 
Cervantes: Let's have it then, rebellious scum! Like a flimsy belt around the waist of defeat, you shall buckle here!

Cervantes: I...am finished... Nngh... But I have no regrets... I die in the shadow of...greatness...

Excellus: You think I'm afraid? Of YOU?! Come, then. COME AT ME! 

Walhart: You would challenge the Conqueror himself?!

Walhart: Nngh... Do you see? Often the sword...is the only way... My conquest...ends here...

%Say'ri,Excellus
Excellus: ...You. ...YOU! You and Yen'fay cost me EVERYTHING!
Say'ri: I only pray my brother is watching... Yen'fay, guide my hand!

%Chrom,Walhart
Chrom: Walhart!
Walhart: Prince...
Chrom: Will you surrender?
Walhart: Don't waste my time with questions you know the answers to, boy.
Chrom: It did not have to be this way... You believe in mankind's strength... So did my sister. You believe that we are masters of our destinies... So do I. You could have joined us.
Walhart: ME, JOIN YOU?! Does a pegasus join with the flea on its back? A dragon, with a cow it eats?! You forget your place, BOY. I am the Conqueror! I will unite the world!
Chrom: No! ...I will. And not by forcing all the people to choose the sword or the knee. Peace will only come by stoking people's hearts...not their fear.
Walhart: You think that's what you've done? What your sister did before you? No, she shouted some nonsense and leapt off a rock! Such weakness!
Chrom: Wrong. Not weakness—strength. That one act lives on, and WILL live on, longer than all your conquests...
Walhart: And longer than you will... Come then, flea, and die for your peace!
Chrom: Emm, I tried...

@End 
Frederick: Milord! Walhart's soldiers have agreed to cease hostilities.
Chrom: Finally... Then pull our men back immediately. ...It's strange, Frederick... Walhart and my sister were complete opposites. One gave her life to stop a war. The other took lives to create one. And yet they both inspired those around them; both walked a path to end all war. Both lived, and died, trying to unite the people.
Lucina: Yes, Father, but as they say, the method is the message. Your father suffered from beliefs similar to Walhart, and his legacy is plain to see...
Chrom: Mmm...these are matters too weighty for this moment. There will be plenty of time for reflection now that the war is done.
Say'ri: Sir Chrom, a thousand thanks from every Valmese couldn't repay what you did for us. But I recovered Vert, the Gemstone that was stolen from Chon'sin as a trophy.
Chrom: You're giving it to me?
Say'ri: Of course, sir. It seems the fell dragon will soon threaten us all. I would feel safer knowing the Gemstone was in your hands.
Chrom: Then so it will be. Thank you, Say'ri.

Chrom: Are we packed and saddled? Our business in Valm is finished, but we have another task ahead. One perhaps even more dire than we faced here... To Ylisstol!

Chrom: *Sigh*
Robin: I know that face... "Dueling with unpleasant thoughts," are we?
Chrom: You know me well, Robin.
Robin: Hey, remember when Lissa first brought me here? When I met all the Shepherds? And Sumia... Ha ha! Oh, what a day! ...Actually, that's my first memory, in a way.
Chrom: Heh, I suppose so. I wish all our memories since could have been as joyful.
Robin: I know... So much needless bloodshed. So many days of pain and doubt and fighting... We would have never made it without you there to guide us, you know.
Chrom: Funny. I was going to say the same to you.
Robin: I guess we really are two halves of the same whole.
Chrom: I've sent Frederick to search for Sable, the final Gemstone. And I've been reading more about the Awakening ritual. It seems that whoever attempts the rite must brave Naga's fire. If both body and spirit survive the agony, they are blessed with the dragon's power. Otherwise, the candidate...dies.
Lucina: What?! No! ...Er, that is... Father, must you attempt this? (Lucina enters)
Chrom: Eavesdropping, young lady?
Lucina: Forgive me, Father. I didn't intend to... I came to speak with you, but I couldn't find the right moment and—
Chrom: It's all right, Lucina. And yes, I'll be all right, too. I will withstand Naga's fire. I'm sure of it.
Frederick: Milord, I have returned. (Frederick enters)
Chrom: Yes, Frederick? Did you find it?
Frederick: I believe so, sire. King Validar has extended an invitation. He says Plegia has been guarding Sable, and now he wishes to return it to you.
Chrom: Validar...
Frederick: They sent word to me, milord. They must have caught wind of my search... In any case, Validar asks that you visit him in person, that he might formally present it. Perhaps needless to say, milord, but I don't like this one bit.
Chrom: Neither do I, Frederick the Wary. Neither do I. At best, it's selfish political maneuvering at a time when the world can ill afford it. At worst, our run-in with those Risen last visit was no accident... But we will meet with him. Send word at once.
Frederick: Milord, are you...certain that's wise?
Chrom: No, but we haven't time to be certain. ...And my sister never refused a diplomatic gesture, no matter how foul smelling. If he doesn't give us the stone, he may at least reveal where it is. ...Don't worry, Frederick. I'm not walking into this blindly. We will make certain everyone is armed to the teeth.
Frederick: Then the Fire Emblem, milord—you ought at least leave it behind.
Chrom: Unless that's what Validar expects, and he comes to steal it with my best men away... No, it's safest with me, for now. We'll learn the truth of Validar's motive soon enough...
/***EOF***/
@Intro 
Robin: ......
Chrom: Are you ready, Robin?
Robin: Chrom, first I have a favor to ask...
Chrom: As long as it's not a request to leave you behind.
Robin: It's not...though I did consider it. I can't hurt you if I'm not there in the first place. But...I can't run from Validar forever. And if I'm going to overcome him, my best chance is with you by my side.
Chrom: That's more like it.
Robin: But therein lies the favor... If Validar somehow does gain control over me... Promise me... Promise me you'll cut me down.
Chrom: You can't mean that. You can't ASK that!
Robin: I'll resist him with all that I am. I promise you. But there are other people involved here— too many people to ignore... You have a duty to protect them as well.
Chrom: ...You're right. The words burn my tongue, but you're right. But you mustn't let Validar seize control! Whatever it takes. Whatever the cost!
Robin: I'll try. You know I will.

Chrom: Validar!
Validar: Chrom... Come to witness the glorious culmination of your failure? How nice. I have the Fire Emblem, and the Dragon's Table is set for a feast. I will return Grima to this world!
Chrom: You'll DESTROY the world! Lucina has seen it!
Validar: Then I pray today's spectacle lives up to her nightmares! The Awakening rite is not only for exalts and Naga, you know. With it, I'll arouse Grima! The fell dragon needs only a mortal vessel, which you so kindly brought along...
Robin: ...Oh, gods. He means me.
Validar: You ken quickly, Robin. That's my boy/girl.
Robin: No! Never! I'll die first!
Validar: You carry my blood—the blood of the fell dragon. His soul slumbers within you. And now the time has come to awaken you both!
Robin: ...Wh-what?! I'M Grima? I'M the fell dragon?!
Validar: The Grimleal have worked for generations to create someone like you... A vessel worthy of our master. Simply having Grima's blood in your veins is not enough... My father was not worthy, nor was his father before him. Even I was not able to accept Grima's most sacred gift. But you? You had all the makings. You were perfection!
Robin: N-no...
Validar: If your damnable mother hadn't been seized by weakness and fear... She betrayed us—stole you from your crib, and fled with you in the night! I know naught of your life thereafter; but all that matters is your return. That you are here is PROOF of your purpose! it is why you still draw breath!
Chrom: You've proven nothing but your own madness. Robin... We are going to stop this. This can be stopped. YOU can be stopped!
Validar: You may have killed me in some future past, but I am stronger this time! With the power of the Dragon's Table flowing through me, I am unstoppable.
Chrom: You're not the only one stronger this time! Right, Robin? ...Robin?
Robin: Nngh...
Chrom: Stay with me, Robin! You're not beholden to this fiend! You can fight it! We've all seen how strong you are! We've seen what you're capable of! Don't let him shake your resolve!
Robin: C-Chrom, I... I don't know.
Validar: Enough! This sorry display ill befits the heir to our master's power. And you, Prince—your sad poem sounds lovely, but it will not alter destiny.
Robin: They're more than just words!
Validar: Be still now, my son/daughter...
Robin: My life did not begin with you. It began the day Chrom found me in that field. I have been all over this world, and I have helped change it—for the better. I have fought and laughed and bled with my friends, and THAT is what matters! The ties we forged, the bonds we share—they are of a power greater than Grima.
Validar: A ludicrous idea, as you will know better than anyone soon enough...
Robin: We do agree on one thing: my life so far has all been in preparation for this moment... When I kill you or die trying!
Validar: Heh heh heh. You have your father's courage, but your mother's judgment... Very well, pup. Come! Do your worst! Come at me with all you have! There is no damage I can do your body that the fell dragon cannot repair!

@Battle 
Chrom: This is it! Our final battle! You're one of us, Robin, and no "destiny" can change that. Now let's kill this dastard and be done with it!

Validar: So long as the dark barrier stands, no other soul can reach us. You must face your grim fate alone!

Validar: Come, my Grimleal! Smite these infidels!

@Boss 
Validar: Destiny is your master, one way or the other!

Validar: Heh heh... Even this...was meant to be...

%Chrom,Validar
Validar: Heh ha, are you so eager to meet your end, little Prince? You WILL die here. Your future is already written.
Chrom: I tell you again: I make my own future. And it's one you'll not live to see!

%Robin,Validar
Validar: Robin, why insist on these games? You only delay the inevitable. And besides, the alternative? Have you considered what happens should I fall? These followers of Naga will spurn you now that they've learned what you are. Kill me, and you incur the wrath of the Grimleal as well... Would you truly choose to be so utterly alone?
Robin: ......
Validar: Humans are weak, pathetic creatures... Your "bonds" with them will bind you. You are destined for a greater purpose! The GREATEST purpose! You are to be a GOD!
Robin: ...Not your god—not today.

@Cutscene 
Validar: This isn't over... Damn you BOTH!

Chrom: Are you all right? That's the end of him. Thanks to you we carried the day. We can rest easy now. At long last...

Chrom: ...What's wrong? Hey, hang on!

Chrom: This is not your—your fault... Promise me you'll escape from this place... Please, go...

@Dialogue
Lucina: N-no... Father! No!
Validar: With the five Gemstones in hand, my magic knows no bounds. Robin is powerless to resist me. Do you see now, Son/Daughter? Human bonds are leaves in the wind. They offer you nothing.
Lucina: This can't be happening. We were supposed to change this! Everything I have done is...worthless.
???: The hell it was!
Lucina: Huh? I know that voice...

Basilio: Don't you put any stock in this destiny hogwash! Let the dead whine about their fate... As long as I draw breath, I choose to keep fighting! That's what life is all about!
Lucina: Khan Basilio! I-I thought... We all thought you were—
Basilio: Worm food, back in Valm? It almost went that way. But I scraped by, thanks to you.
Lucina: I don't understand.
Basilio: Once I took a couple hits from Walhart, I knew he was too strong for me. Normally pride would've had me dead before I'd even thought twice about it. But your warning gave me the courage to be a coward, hah ha! I played dead like a big, bald opossum! It wasn't hard. In truth I almost WAS dead. You saved my life, Lucina. Had you not said anything... I'd have stood my ground against that monster and died on the spot.
Lucina: Oh, Basilio!
Validar: This...does...not...MATTER! If you didn't die there, then you can die HERE!
Basilio: Hah! You're no Walhart, snake eyes! Not as strong, or even as clever... For example: you STILL haven't realized that you've been tricked.
Validar: What?!
Basilio: Robin predicted everything that would happen here. He/She saw it in a dream. Saw this very fight with you.
Validar: If you think—
Basilio: Guess what else was in the dream? The five Gemstones. When Flavia gave my stone to Chrom, Robin saw what fate had in store. He/She knew Chrom couldn't bring the real Gemstones here to Plegia. That would be like swinging a big, juicy steak right in front of destiny's choppers!
Validar: Gya ha ha! A worthy bluff, Feroxi fool, but ridiculous all the same. I've had your merry little band watched since Carrion Isle. Your every move! So I know Robin hasn't touched the stones—he/she hasn't been near them!
Basilio: You watched our party, yes—the members your men knew about; the live ones. But they weren't watching dead men, were they? ...They weren't watching me.
Validar: I... No, that's not—
Basilio: Heh, looks like it might be finally starting to sink in...
Validar: That is not possible! These have to be... They must be...
Basilio: Why? Because of...DESTINY? PAH ha ha! Robin had your destiny beat days ago, when he/she came up with this plan. The expression on your face...it makes all those long nights in hiding worth it. Hah!
Validar: Damn you! Damn you to all the hells! None of this matters! Chrom is dead! Your fates sealed! Grima will— ...Eh?

Validar: No...
Lucina: Father! You're alive!
Chrom: Robin...spared me... He/She weakened his/her magic...just before the strike...
Robin: ......
Validar: GRAAAAAAGH! Damn you all, and your stones! I won't need them to kill you!
Chrom: Ready to end this, Robin?
Robin: Let's do it. I'm ready to see what our true future has in store.
Chrom: We will. Now. Together.

Basilio: Chrom! Robin! We're yours to command!
Flavia: Let's put this dastard down, for good this time!

@Boss 
Validar: Rrgh... F-fools... Destiny cannot...be...unraveled...! 

Validar: No...nngh! All...wrong...

%Lucina,Validar
Lucina: Die, Validar!
Validar: Impudent meddler! You have failed to change the future at every turn. What makes you think this time will be different?!
Lucina: Perhaps it won't... But either way, it's no reason to spare your miserable life!

@End 
Validar: Why... Why would you squander your birthright... Robin...my son/daughter...

Chrom: We did it! We did it, Robin! We've altered our destiny! We... We've won.

Robin: You!
Future Robin: You may have altered the course of history, but not its destination.
Robin: What do you mean?!
Future Robin: It is still written that Chrom died here at your hands. Or, perhaps to be more precise...mine.
Chrom: Who are you, really?!
Future Robin: I told you, I'm Robin. The Robin that murdered you and became the fell dragon, Grima. When this "Marth" of yours decided to come back in time...I came with her.
Robin: Another version of me? But how...?
Future Robin: *Sigh* I can be so daft sometimes... It's really quite simple. I am you. Our only difference is the decisions we've made... Those vivid dreams you have—those are my memories. We share those memories because we share the same heart... Grima's heart.
Robin: Th-the headaches... The voices... It was you!
Future Robin: Your recollection begins the day I entered this world. I intended for us to unite then, the first moment I found you. But your heart was still too weak to contain Grima's power... The shock of my attempt wiped your memory clean.
Robin: ......
Future Robin: I knew if Lucina managed to rewrite history, Grima would never be resurrected. And I, in turn, would cease to exist. So I had to step in, now and again, to keep my future secured. Like when Validar was killed in his attempt to assassinate Emmeryn... But that is the past, now. We have our future past to think of. All that remains is for you to become Grima, as I did. Then you and I will become as one, and we can reclaim my power.
Robin: We are not yet the same?
Future Robin: ...You were supposed to choose godhood over your pathetic band of servants. But if you'll not claim the sacrifice laid at the Dragon's Table... I will claim it in your place!
Robin: What?!
Future Robin: Myeh heh ha ha ha! The fell dragon and I are one! And though my journey through time has diminished my power...the life force here shall renew me!

Chrom: All right. Now what?
Lucina: Grima. It's all over...

Lucina: That's Grima! That's the demon who destroyed my world. And now he is among us...
Frederick: The terrible size of it...gods! For once the legends spoke true. We can't face him, not in a straight battle—he'd kill us all!
Chrom: If only we still had the Fire Emblem, we could ask Naga for her power. Then at least we'd have a chance.
Lissa: But Validar took the Emblem!
Chrom: And it was lost inside the Dragon's Table... I know.
Robin: What, you mean THIS Fire Emblem?
Chrom: The Emblem! But how...
Robin: I stole it from you once, remember? The least I could do was steal it back.
Chrom: Robin, you old dastard/sly cat. You never cease to amaze! Quickly now! We must complete the Awakening before Grima catches on!
Frederick: It's said the first exalt paid tribute to Naga at a site on Mount Prism.
Chrom: Do you know where, exactly?
Frederick: Yes. There is an altar at the peak of the mountain. If milord would perform the Awakening, it must be done there.
Chrom: A small hope is better than no hope at all. Hurry, everyone!
/***EOF***/
@Intro 
Lissa: Here we are! The Shepherds' garrison. Go on, Make yourself at home.

Maribelle: Lissa, my treasure! Are you all right? I've been on pins and needles!

Lissa: Oh, hey, Maribelle!
Maribelle: "Oh hey" yourself! I've sprouted 14 grey hairs fretting over you!
Lissa: Aw, you worry too much. I can handle a battle or two! ...Although I could do without the bugs and the bear barbecue...
Vaike: Hey, squirt! Where's Chrom? I bet he had a rough time out there without ol' Teach and his trusty axe!
Lissa: Oh, so you're "Teach" now, Vaike, is that it? Hee hee! And here I thought people were just born lacking wits. It can be taught?
Vaike: Ha! Never doubt the Vaike! ...Wait, was that an insult?
Sumia: Beg pardon, but when might we see the captian?
Maribelle: Poor Sumia. She's simply been beside herself with concern... Her eyes were scanning the horizon all day during training. ...She might have earned fewer bruises fighting blindfolded.
Lissa: Aw, Sumia, that's so sweet of you to worry about Chrom.
Sumia: Worry? Well, I... He's our captain and our prince- of course I'd worry!
Vaike: So, who's the stranger?
Lissa: No one's stranger than you Vaike... But allow me to introduce Robin! He/She just joined the Shepherds. Chrom's made him/her our new tactician. You should see all the tricks he/she's got up his/her sleeve!
Vaike: Oh yeah? Can he/she do this? *buuuuuurp*
Robin: I'm sure I have much to learn in the belching arts, "Teach." In any case, it's a pleasure to make your acquaintances.
Maribelle: Ugh, Vaike! That was abhorrent! Must you baseborn oafs pollute even the air with your buffoonery? And you, Robin! Don't encourage him! I'd hope you were cut from finer cloth. Hmph!

Sumia: Don't take it to heart, Robin. Maribelle warms to people slowly.
Lissa: Or burns too quickly! Hee hee! But yeah, just give her time.

Sumia: Ah! Captain! You've returned! I was- I mean, we were so-

Chrom: Sumia! Are you all right? ...Those boots of yours again?
Sumia: No! I mean, yes! I mean... *sigh*
Chrom: All right, listen, everyone: in the morning, we'll be marching to Regna Ferox.
Robin: Regna Ferox?
Sumia: A unified kingdom to Ylisse's north inhabitied by barbarians, or so it's said.
Chrom: Warriors are what they are, and we'll need their strength to quell thas new menace. Typically, the exalt would request such aid in person. But given recent events... Well, the people might worry should my sister suddenly leave the capital. So the task has been passed to us. Now, this mission is strictly voluntary. So if, for any-
Lissa: I volunteer!
Vaike: Me too! You'll be needin' ol' Teach along for such a delicate mission!
Kellam: I'll go as well. ...What? I've been here the whole time!
Sumia: I... I, um...
Chrom: Yes, Sumia?
Sumia: It's just that... I'm not sure I'm quite ready for a proper mission just yet. I'd probably just get in the way.
Chrom: Well, you could stay behind the main group, and if a battle is met, just watch and learn? Your choice, of course. But some lessons can only be learned on the battlefield.
Sumia: W-well, if you think it wise, Captain.
Chrom: Just stay by me and you'll be fine.
Sumia: Oh, yes! I mean- Yes, sir, I'll do that!

Chrom: Is everyone ready? We've a long march ahead.
Stahl: W-wait for me!

Chrom: Stahl?
Stahl: Why am I the last to hear about this expedition to Ferox?
Lissa: Huh? Vaike was supposed to... Vaike! Did you forget to tell Stahl about our mission?
Vaike: The Vaike never forgets! ...I just don't always remember, is all...
Lissa: Ugh... I swear, you'd forget your own name if you weren't constantly saying it yourself! Speaking of which, are you SURE you remembered your axe this time?
Vaike: Hey! That was one time! ...Okay, twice, but training sessions don't count. Anyway, I got it right here. Teach is loaded and ready for action! Glad to have you along, Stahl, ol' buddy.
Stahl: That makes one of us. I was in such a hurry, I had to miss breakfast! There were muffins, and cakes, and... Well, I can tell you all about it while we march...
Robin: Your name is Stahl, right?
Chrom: Oh, I'm sorry, Robin. This is Stahl, one of our finest.
Stahl: Hello, Robin. Miriel told me we had a new Shepherd. Er, Miriel's one of our mages. She should catch up soon.

@Battle 
Chrom: Gods, have the Risen spread this far?
Robin: "Risen"?
Frederick: We needed a name for this new threat, so the council gave them one.
Chrom: Everyone, remember what we're up against!
Vaike: Mya ha! They'll remember ME once I drive my axe into their... Wait... My axe. Where's my axe?! I had it a second ago!
Chrom: Vaike, this is no time for jokes...
Vaike: I'm serious! It's gone, but I JUST had it! It's got to be around here somewhere...
Chrom: Keep to the rear, then! The battle is nigh!

Frederick: All right, listen up. ...Especially those of you who BROUGHT weapons! All weapons have strengths and weaknesses to bear in mind. Lances have an advantage over swords, for example, while swords best axes. We'll want to work this into our strategy whenever possible.

Miriel: Splendid! It seems I've caught up. Now to extirpate these brutes... Hmm? Is that an axe? Why yes it is... Perhaps someone mislaid it? I'd not thought such dereliction permissible amoung the Shepherds. Still, I'd be remiss to not return this implement to its owner. Perhaps along with a stern word or two of disapprobation!

@Battle-Talk 
%Vaike,Miriel
Vaike: Whoa! My axe!
Miriel: I wondered what manner of ignoramus would mislay their weapon. Now I know.
Vaike: Thanks, Miriel! ...Er, for the axe anyway!
Miriel: Perhaps next time I'll use a spell to fasten it to your hands... permanently.

Chrom: What's next, Robin? Guide our swords.
Frederick: Might I advise patience, milord? Robin is a fine tactician, but we have been working her/him mercilessly. Even the best of us needs rest.
Chrom: Yes, of course. I'm sorry.
Frederick: Perhaps Robin would prefer we choose our own actions at times.
Chrom: But how will we know?
Frederick: We could use a simple command that lets us fight on our own. So long as Robin realizes such a strategy does not guarantee victory. Acting as we see fit may not always lead us to the best course of action.

@Boss
Risen Chief:  Gwaaaaaar!
Risen Chief:  Unnngh...

@End 
Chrom: Finally, and good riddance! But if they're appearing this far up the Northroad...
Frederick: Then no path is safe. We'll need to stay wary.

Robin: Well, what do we have here?
Lissa: Hey, is that what I think it is?

Chrom: It's a pegasus, all right. I think it's hurt. Let's just have a look here...

Chrom: WHOA! Down, girl! Easy there!
Sumia: Captain, one moment!

Chrom: Sumia! Are you all right? ...Those boots of yours again?
Sumia: No! I mean, Yes! I mean... *sigh*
Chrom: Well, come no closer. This beast is crazed!
Sumia: It's okay, Captain. I can handle this... Shhh... Easy now, girl. I won't hurt you.

Sumia: Shhh...
Robin: How did she calm it so quickly?
Lissa: That's incredible, Sumia!
Chrom: I've never seen anything like it.
Sumia: Oh, it's...it's nothing. Really. I just have a way with animals, I guess.
Chrom: I should say so!
Sumia: You all go ahead. I'll dress her wounds and catch up as soon as we're able.
Chrom: We can make time to wait for you.
Sumia: thank you, Captain. But I can manage. Every moment is precious when all of Ylisse is in danger.
Chrom: Right, then. Be safe, Sumia.
Sumia: As you command, sir.
/***EOF***/
@Intro 
Lissa: Whoaaa... I don't think I've ever felt so small...
Basilio: I can't even see the top of it!
Frederick: Most impressive indeed... So the shrine hides all the way up in its branches?
Say'ri: Aye, sir. A great staircase inside the trunk leads up to it. However, the empire has closed off the only route to the steps. Or perhaps "roots" to the steps, I should say.
Chrom: Then we'll just have to break through. Come!

@Battle 
Cervantes: So! They arrive at last, eh wot! "Yes, come closer," said the hairy spider to the flies...
Soldier: General Cervantes! Lord Excellus was right—the Ylissean League approaches!
Cervantes: ...Are you daft, boy? Did you not hear what I was JUST saying?!
Soldier: A thousand pardons, sir!
Cervantes: Hmm... They must have some skill to make it this far... But no matter. We will show them the meaning of the word "fear"...
Soldier: The meaning of "beard," sir? Er, yes, I'm sure they would be most impressed.... But perhaps—
Cervantes: Fear, you deaf ignoramus! FEAR!
Soldier: Y-yes, sir! Of course, sir! ...Sorry, sir!
Cervantes: ...They are impressive, though, aren't they? My whiskers? Ha ha! I've not shaved since my very first battle. And have I ever lost? No! Not even once! Ergo, my moustache makes me invincible. It's science, my boy—science!

Cervantes: Heh ha, yes! "Come, reinforcements," said the spider to...the...other spiders.

@Boss 
Cervantes: My whiskers are safe against you lot—victory is inevitable!

Cervantes: Nngah! But...how can this be? My invincible moustache! Blasted science, you have...played me for a...fool...

%Chrom,Cervantes
Chrom: Fiend! You invade kingdoms and bully them into submission... Why? What does it achieve?
Cervantes: Do you even need ask, whelp? Emperor Walhart is destined to rule this world, plain and simple.
Chrom: Yes, but to what end?
Cervantes: Irrelevant! Walhart's mind is beyond the grasp of common men.
Chrom: So you don't even know what you're fighting for?
Cervantes: I tend to my own beard, boy. A soldier does not question orders. But he gives his loyalty—and maybe his life—in the service of greater men.
Chrom: Great men? Is living only to conquer so great an ambition?
Cervantes: What could be greater! Once I had dreams myself of commanding a nation... But Walhart? Aye, he dreams bigger. He would rule the entire world! Mine is nothing compared to the moxie of the Conqueror. I am but a single tiny hair on the beard of a flea in his great moustache! Have you not tasted the thrill of being part of something bigger than yourself?
Chrom: Not at the price of inflicting cruelty and suffering, no.
Cervantes: Hmph. Then we have nothing more to discuss. Prepare to learn the meaning of the word "beard." ...Fear, I mean fear!

%Cervantes,Say'ri
Cervantes: ...Eh wot?! It cannot be! Say'ri—my mortal enemy...
Say'ri: General Cervantes... Your reputation—and your gut—precedes you.
Cervantes: But we have met in battle before, girl! Have you forgotten?! Not long ago, you and I, locked in deadly combat. I was sure we had won the day until you appeared...
Say'ri: ...Your beard again? Can you talk of nothing else, you imperial pig?!
Cervantes: Ap-PEARED! I said "appeared"! Just...never mind!

@End 
Say'ri: Marry! What fighting! I almost pity the enemies of Ylisse.
Chrom: Say'ri, do you know the way up to the shrine?
Say'ri: Aye, sir. Follow me—and let us be quick about it!

Lissa: *Huff huff* Ugh... How many stairs are there in a case of stairs? Because I'm already sick of this stupid staircase!
Lucina: The Voice truly lives all the way up here?
Say'ri: Lady Tiki! Are you here? Prithee answer!
Tiki: *Yawn*
Say'ri: Ah, my lady... I'm so relieved to see you're all right.
Lucina: So you are Lady Tiki? She who speaks for the divine dragon?
Tiki: ...Marth? Oh, Mar-Mar, is that you?!
Lucina: ...My name is Lucina, milady. Though I did go by the name Marth for a time. Might we have met?
Tiki: ...Alas, no. I'm sorry... You reminded me of someone I knew. But he is gone now. Lost during my endless sleep...
Lucina: ......
Tiki: You and your father are of the exalted bloodline, are you not?
Chrom: Yes, milady.
Tiki: Do you yet possess the Fire Emblem? It should have been passed down through your family...
Chrom: I... Yes, I have it...
Tiki: Ah! What relief to know it has not been lost. ...But where are the Gemstones? I see only Argent.
Chrom: Gemstones?
Tiki: Yes, there are five of them—Argent, Sable, Gules, Azure, and Vert. Each holds a portion of Naga's power. When mounted upon the Emblem, they allow one to perform the Awakening.
Frederick: The rite by which the first exalt channeled the divine dragon's power...
Tiki: The very same. With the Fire Emblem's power, the exalt was able to defeat Grima. But such power was too much for men, and so the Gemstones were scattered. I kept Azure here with me.
Say'ri: My kingdom had safeguarded Vert for generations. But the gem was recently stolen by Walhart's men.
Lucina: Milady, do you know where the other two Gemstones might be?
Tiki: The remaining Gemstones, Sable and Gules, are no longer known to me. They may have been taken long ago, at the time of the Schism.
Basilio: Regna Ferox was founded during the Schism. As were most all nations in the realm, I believe.
Lissa: Wait—does that mean you guys have one of the Gemstones, Basilio?
Flavia: Ha! As if anyone would entrust the oaf with such a thing!
Basilio: Actually, it's true—we did keep one: Gules. ...Did I never inform you?
Flavia: You most certainly did not.
Basilio: Hmm... Must have slipped my mind. Regardless, yes. The West-Khans once safeguarded Gules. But it was lost long before my lifetime.
Tiki: Here. Take Azure, exalted ones. With it, you possess two of the five Gemstones. Now you must seek out the others and perform the Awakening. Our world must be defended from Grima at all costs!
Chrom: But I'm confused... I thought Grima's power was sealed away.
Tiki: Yes, but ever since, there have been those who would change that. Grima's life force grows even now, and with it, the long shadows of despair.
Lucina: ......
Chrom: When will he return? And where?
Tiki: I cannot know these things. But I can feel his presence... It looms, closer and closer... This task is a heavy burden, but as he of exalted blood, it must fall to you, Chrom.
Chrom: I understand. Thank you, for all your help.

Robin: We owe you a great debt, milady.
Tiki: Ah! You... You have it...
Robin: ...What?
Tiki: You have power...like mine.
Robin: I do?
Tiki: I... Ah... Forgive me... I am still groggy from my slumber. My words outpace my thoughts.
Say'ri: Are you all right, my lady?
Tiki: I am fine... Just very tired... I haven't the strength to join you in the fray. Not yet. But I will call the people together, in prayer, for an end to this conflict.

Say'ri: Factions of the Resistance are already uniting in answer to the Voice's call! Soon bards will sing of this day... "They who conquered the Conqueror!"
Chrom: A tune I'm most anxious to hear.
Robin: But a man like Walhart will not roll over dead at the first sign of trouble...
Say'ri: Aye, my lord...as you say. He will muster his forces to put down the Rebellion. Then his gaze will turn to us. Against his full might, we would not last long.
Chrom: Where are his armies garrisoned?
Say'ri: The Valmese Imperial Army is comprised of three main divisions: one controls the north, one the south, and the third the lands between. Emperor Walhart commands the northern forces. Their might easily exceeds our own. The south is led by my brother, Yen'fay. His host is said to rival Walhart's.
Robin: Divisions, are they? Hmm...
Flavia: I see a plan brewing in those eyes of yours, Robin...
Robin: If we could divide their divisions—disrupt communications, supplies, et cetera... Then introduce misinformation to add to the confusion...a whisper here and there... The panic would spread on its own...and all the quicker for their great number. Such a giant force could collapse under its own weight.
Chrom: Say'ri—the third division, stationed between the other two...
Say'ri: Aye, sir, at Fort Steiger, halfway along the highroad. In fact, not so far from where we stand now. We might stand a chance against them... But it would take speed, and luck. I wager Walhart and Yen'fay will hear of our exploits soon, if they haven't already. I suggest sending the bulk of our army to the north and south to mask our plan. An elite force, led by Sir Chrom, might then quietly slip through to Fort Steiger. What say you?
Chrom: I say, "aye."
Flavia: Aye.
Say'ri: Fie! We could all be dead before nightfall, yet not one of you so much as hesitates. Your courage is...an inspiration... Aye, we will win this war yet, by gods!
/***EOF***/
@Cutscene 
Lissa: Chrom, we have to do SOMETHING.
Chrom: Well, what do you propose we do?
Lissa: Uh... I don't know!... 

Chrom: I see you're awake now.
Lissa: Hey there! 
Chrom: There are better places to take a nap than on the ground, you know.  Give me your hand.

@Intro
Chrom: You all right?
Robin: Y-yes... Thank you, Chrom.
Chrom: Ah, then you know who I am?
Robin: No, actually. I... It's strange... Your name, it just...came to me...
Chrom: ...Hmm, how curious. Tell me, what's your name? What brings you here?
Robin: My name is... It's... Hmm?
Chrom: ...You don't remember your own name?
Robin: I'm not sure if... I'm sorry, but where am I, exactly?
Lissa: Hey, I've heard of this! It's called amnesia!
Frederick: It's called a load of pegasus dung.  We're to believe you remember milord's name, but not your own?
Robin: B-but it's the truth!
Chrom: ...What if it IS true, Frederick? We can't just leave him/her here, alone and confused. What sort of Shepherds would we be then?
Frederick: Just the same, milord. I must emphasize caution. 'Twould not do to let a wolf into our flock.
Chrom: Right then—we'll take him/her back to town and sort this out here.
Robin: Wait just one moment. Do I have a say in this?
Chrom: Peace, friend—I promise we'll hear all you have to say back in town. Now come.

Robin: What will you do with me? Am I to be your prisoner?
Chrom: Hah! You'll be free to go once we establish that you're no enemy of Ylisse.
Robin: Is that where we are? Ylisse?
Frederick: You've never heard of the halidom? Ha! Someone pay this actor/actress. He/She plays quite the fool! The furrowed brow is especially convincing…
Chrom: Frederick, please.  This land is known as the Halidom of Ylisse. Our ruler, Emmeryn, is called the exalt. I suppose proper introductions are in order... My name is Chrom—but then, you already knew that.  The delicate one here is my little sister, Lissa.
Lissa: I am NOT delicate! …Hmph!  Ignore my brother, please. He can be a bit thick sometimes. But you're lucky the Shepherds found you. Brigands would've been a rude awakening!
Robin: Shepherds? You tend sheep? ...In full armor?
Chrom: Heh, it's a dangerous job. Just ask Frederick the Wary here.

Frederick: A title I shall wear with pride. Gods forbid one of us keeps an appropriate level of caution. I have every wish to trust you, stranger, but my station mandates otherwise.
Robin: I understand, sir. I would do no less myself. My name is Robin. …I just remembered that. How odd. I suppose that's one mystery solved.
Chrom: Robin? Is that foreign? …Ah, well. We can discuss it later. We're almost to town. Once we—
Lissa: Chrom, look! The town!

Chrom: Damn it! The town is ablaze! Those blasted brigands, no doubt... Frederick, Lissa! Quickly!
Frederick: What about him/her?
Chrom: Unless he's/she's on fire as well, it can wait!
Frederick: Aptly put, milord.
Lissa: Let's go already!

Robin: But what about— Hmm...

@Battle 
Garrick: Gwa ha ha! Get to it, lads! Grab anything shiny, and put the rest to the torch! We gots an example to set for these Ylissean types! Ain't that right, lass?
Maiden: S-stay away from me! Please! Someone! HEEEEEELP!

Lissa: Chrom, we have to stop them!
Chrom: Don't worry—after today, these bandits won't be bothering anyone ever again…

Robin: Wait!
Chrom: Robin! You followed us! Why?
Robin: I… I'm not certain myself. But I'm armed, and I know my way around a fight if you'll have me.
Chrom: Of course—strength in numbers. Just stay close!

Frederick: Remember, Robin, we face practiced thieves and murderers. They will grant us no quarter. It's kill or be killed.

Chrom: So, Robin, I see you wear a sword. Is it— Wait, is that a tome? …You know magic?
Robin: I…believe so? I suppose I should check.
Chrom: You "believe so"? Perhaps I'll just keep a few paces behind you for the time being…
Robin: No, I can control it. I'm sure. Now, how did this work again? Ah, yes…

Lissa: We'll see who's delicate! I may not be able to attack like Chrom, but when you get injured? I'll be the one stitching your bones back together, care of my trusty staff! You just tell me where to go, Robin.

Chrom: Is anyone hurt? It would be foolish to leave a wound untreated.
Robin: Indeed. Timely use of a staff or a vulnerary should prevent the worst.

Chrom: Still with us, Robin?
Robin: Hmm… It's strange. Here on the battlefield, I can… Well, I can "see" things.
Chrom: See things? Like what?
Robin: The enemy's strength, their weaponry, the flow of battle… I must have studied this somewhere.
Chrom: So, you're saying you can size up the enemy at a glance?
Robin: Yes, it would seem so. And perhaps more, if I apply myself…

Chrom: Are you all right, Robin? Don't rush into danger.
Robin: I'm fine, Chrom. Don't worry.
Chrom: You've lent us your strength, and that makes you a friend. Having an ally by my side gives me courage.
Robin: Thank you, but…I think there's more to it than that.
Chrom: What do you mean?
Robin: I believe there's a tactical advantage to fighting side by side… It's fuzzy… Wait, yes: working in pairs improves strength, defense, speed… Yes, yes, I'm sure of it!

@Boss
Garrick: Here, sheepy sheepy! Come to the slaughter! 
Garrick: Bwaaargh! 

@End 
Robin: Well, that's the end of that.
Lissa: Lucky for the town, we were close by. But holy wow, Robin! You were incredible! Swords, sorcery, AND tactics! Is there anything you can't do?
Chrom: You're certainly no helpless victim, that much is for sure.
Frederick: Indeed. Perhaps you might even be capable of an explanation for how you came here?
Robin: I understand your skepticism, Sir Frederick. And I cannot explain why only some knowledge has returned to me. But please, believe me. I have shared all that I know.
Chrom: You fought to save Ylissean lives. My heart says that's enough.
Frederick: And your mind, milord? Will you now heed its council as well?
Chrom: Frederick, the Shepherds could use someone with Robin's talents. We've brigands and unruly neighbors, all looking to bloody our soil. Would you really have us lose such an able tactician? Besides, I believe his/her story, odd as it might be.
Robin: Th-thank you, Chrom.
Chrom: So how about it? Will you join us, Robin?
Robin: I would be honored.

Frederick: Did you notice, milord? The brigands spoke with a Plegian accent.
Robin: Plegian? What's that?
Chrom: Plegia is Ylisse's westerly neighbor. They send small bands into our territory, hoping to instigate a war.
Lissa: And it's the poor townsfolk who suffer! Totally innocent, and totally helpless...
Frederick: They do have us, milady: Shepherds to protect the sheep. Do not be swept up in your anger. It will cloud your judgment.
Lissa: I know, I know... Don't worry. I'll get used to all this.
Villager: Milord, please! You must stay the night! We are simple folk of simple means, but we would gladly toast your valor with a feast!
Frederick: A most generous offer, sir, and no doubt your hospitality would be grand... But I'm afraid we must hurry back to Ylisstol.
Lissa: Dark meat only for me, medium well, and no salt in the soup. I simply— Wait, what?! We're not staying?! But, Frederick, it's nearly dark!
Frederick: When night falls, we'll camp. Eat off the land, make our bed of twigs and the like... I believe you mentioned you would be "getting used to this"?
Lissa: Frederick? Sometimes I hate you.
Robin: You've quite the stern lieutenant there.
Lissa: Yeah, well, "stern" is one name for it. I can think of a few others!
Chrom: Frederick only smiles when he's about to bring down the axe.
Robin: Duly noted.
Frederick: *Ahem* You do realize I AM still present?
Chrom: Oh, we realize.
Robin: Heh heh.
Frederick: Milord remains as amusing as ever. Now then, shall we be going?
Chrom: All right, all right. Ready to go, Robin? The capital isn't far.
/***EOF***/
@Intro
Say'ri: Just as I thought: the turncloaks only made a show of opposing us. We're clear of them. But Yen'fay's forces approach swiftly. It won't be long now...
Robin: We should hasten south to meet them, and distance ourselves from Walhart. This battle will be challenge enough without the Conqueror breathing down our backs.
Say'ri: ...Another concern: the dynasts who betrayed us. They attacked us and let us go both, because it suited their purpose. Should they attack us from behind as we battle Yen'fay, it would be an easy victory. They would curry favor with the empire without risk of injury. This is how they think.
Robin: Hmm...
Chrom: We cannot defend two fronts. We'll need to choose our battlefield carefully... Say'ri, that mountain—I've seen it smoke for hours but I see no trees on it anywhere?
Say'ri: What...ah. That is no forest fire, sir. It's a volcano. Have you never seen one? That one is called the Demon's Ingle. It is known and feared by all people of Valm. Few dare even get close, lest they anger the wicked fire god.
Chrom: Hmm... Robin? Are you thinking what I'm thinking?
Robin: Only if you're wondering how quickly we can reach the volcano.
Say'ri: G-go to the Demon's Ingle?! Do you know what you're saying?
Robin: I'm saying your opportunistic former friends wouldn't dare risk following us. And we can use the flames as barriers, to limit how your brother's army approaches.
Say'ri: Mmm... And my brother will still come. His stubborn pride will force his hand...
Chrom: Then it seems we have our strategy.
Say'ri: ...'Tis a risky plan, but I can devise none better. And you two seem to have a peculiar talent for performing miracles.

@Battle 
Yen'fay: ......
Excellus: Why, General, such a melancholic air about you today. Whatever is the problem? ...Oh, is today the day you face off against your beloved sister? Dear me, of course it is! Well then, of course you'd be in a foul mood...
Yen'fay: She is a rebel and traitor to the empire. I have no sister.
Excellus: Oh, very good, very good—right out of the book, General Yen'fay! (And I commend your acting ability...very convincing! I think your men all heard you.) In any case, I'm SO glad I can trust you not to take it easy on her ragtag little troupe.
Yen'fay: ......
Excellus: Yes, we BOTH know why you'd never let any of her comrades escape, don't we? Oh, I know it must be so difficult, General. But think of it this way: You still have a family. A big one! The whole imperial army is your family now! ...Well, I should run. Do tell your little sister I say hello? Ta ta!

@Boss 
Yen'fay: I am Yen'fay of Chon'sin. That is all you need know before you die.

Yen'fay: Well fought... She will...be...safe... I can die...in peace...

%Say'ri,Yen'fay
Say'ri: Brother. I won't ask you why... We are well beyond that point now. I will speak it plain: I cannot forgive you, and neither can I let you live.
Yen'fay: I've asked you for nothing, Sister, least of all your forgiveness.
Say'ri: But you will have my justice, like it or no! You, who stood by in silence while everyone around you suffered! While villages were razed and fields burned, you watched but said nothing... When Father and Mother were murdered—you said nothing! Nothing, before you ran to the arms of the one man responsible for all of it! Your silence was deafening. Maddening. Even now...have you nothing to say?!
Yen'fay: ......
Say'ri: Damn you, Yen'fay! Then I will make your sword answer for you! Draw your blade, and let it sing your final words!

%Say'ri,Yen'fay
Yen'fay: Say'ri... You have grown...so strong...
Say'ri: ...Do...do you mock me? I have seen your best swordplay...that was not it. You went easy on me...but why?
Yen'fay: What I could not tell you in life... I say with my death...
Say'ri: But, Yen'fay...
Yen'fay: You have found...strong comrades... I no longer need fear for you... ...I die...in peace...
Say'ri: Yen'fay, wait! What do you mean? Why?! Don't leave me with more silence—not this time! Yen'fay!

%Chrom,Yen'fay
Chrom: General Yen'fay.
Yen'fay: Aye, that is the name. What would you have of me, Ylissean?
Chrom: I would ask why a famed swordmaster would sell his honor to Walhart.
Yen'fay: ...That is not your concern.
Chrom: ...Are you truly your sister's brother? She is a principled woman. Even knowing Walhart's strength, she has fought on valiantly. Are you so deluded as to genuinely consider her your enemy? Or are you simply afraid of your master?
Yen'fay: Afraid...? Yes, fear plays its part, that I cannot deny.
Chrom: ...You admit it, then? You are craven!
Yen'fay: I did not say it was fear for my life. That my reasons exist is not cause to explain them all to strangers.
Chrom: If there's honor left in you, say it now. You could still join us...
Yen'fay: The bones have been thrown, lad. All that remains is to see where they fall.
Chrom: So be it.

%Chrom,Yen'fay
Yen'fay: Hrrgh! Nngh...
Chrom: Whatever your reasons joining them, there must have been another answer...
Yen'fay: Some quandaries in this world...have...no...proper answer...

@End 
Say'ri: Our victory is secured... Yen'fay has fallen. I will never understand why he joined Walhart... His reasons die with him.

Excellus: But oh, what a death it was! Did you see the grief etched on his face? The mix of longing and pain in the eyes? He had become such an accomplished actor, but that was all too real, hee hee!
Say'ri: Excellus... What would you know of my brother, you loathsome toad!
Excellus: More than you, princess of Chon'sin. And I would watch that mouth of yours... I am honoring Yen'fay's sacrifice by not killing you now...but even I have my limits.
Say'ri: ...What? What do you mean "sacrifice"?
Excellus: Oopsie! Did I just spill the beans? Hya ha ha ha ha! I'm so sorry, but I promised your dear brother I'd never tell...
Say'ri: Explain yourself, snake—or die!
Excellus: Bah! As if YOU could harm ME! YOU only live by MY grace, you ungrateful WRETCH! I could have had you killed countless times! And I would have, if not for him...
Say'ri: Enough talking around it—say what you mean!
Excellus: Oh, did Yen'fay not groan out the truth as you cut him to bloody pieces? No, I suppose not. He always was so quiet. And proud...honorable, I think they call it? Yet he swallowed his pride and cast aside his honor...all to protect his beloved kin. That's right, Little Sis. He did it...to save you.
Say'ri: What?! ...Lies... You're lying!
Excellus: No, I'm telling the truth, which I admit is a rare treat, so you best shut up and enjoy it. Before you met these Ylisseans, I could have had your head with a word. In Chon'sin, at Valm Harbor... Did you really think yourself so elusive? You were my leverage for Yen'fay. Unwitting and unbound, but a hostage all the same. I let you live; he fought for us. That was our deal. And he kept his end, right TO his end!
Say'ri: No...NO!
Excellus: Phew... Well, I don't know about you, but I feel MUCH better having that off my chest. Maybe I will give this truth telling a try more often! Yes, I shall resolve to do so! In any case, good-bye, friends! I wish you safe travels, and so sorry about Yen'fay... Oops! I broke my resolution twice already! Tee hee hee!

Say'ri: N-no, this isn't... This can't be... Y-Yen'fay, no...
Chrom: Say'ri...
Say'ri: Gods... The things I said to him... The things I did... I have wronged him beyond imagining.
Chrom: ......
Say'ri: If he had only spoken! Told me! I could have joined the ruse, I...
Lucina: Milady, I know well the grief of losing family with so much yet unsaid.
Say'ri:  I am wretched! I've repaid my brother's kindness with death! Oh, Yen'fay, forgive me... Please, oh please... Please...
Lissa:  Say'ri, I... I'm sorry... I'm so sorry!
Chrom: Say'ri, you did all you could. Your brother knew that... You are blameless in this. Excellus and the empire are at fault here. And they will be made to answer for it, I promise you.
Say'ri: ...... Sir Chrom, I... Pray, forgive me. You have done so much for this land while I can give nothing in return. Or worse... What help I offered turned against us...
Robin: WE'RE the Resistance now, and we've yet to lose a battle! Yen'fay would be proud. And he'd also want us to fight on...to make sure his sacrifice has meaning. And fight we will, Say'ri. Until this land is free.
Say'ri: Aye, sir/my lady... And thank you. I owe my life to you all, and to my brother... I swear to you, and to him... I will make the most of it.

@Dialogue 
Soldier: Milord! *huff, huff* K-Khan Basilio, he... He has been killed in battle!
Lucina: No!
Chrom: Damn it all! You're certain?
Flavia: I am. He's gone, Chrom. I saw him fall myself. ...He's gone.
Chrom: Flavia! What happened? Wait...you're hurt! Lucina—fetch a healer, at once!
Flavia: I'll be fine, gods damn me... Gods damn me for outliving that one-eyed clod! That big, bald oaf! That...that...Aaaaaargh!
Lucina: That's twice now I have failed...
Flavia: I'll kill him! I'll cut that dastard Walhart down myself! I swear it before the gods!
Chrom: No, Flavia...for now, you need to rest and to heal. When the time is right, we will avenge Basilio. You have my word.
Flavia: ...Then know that I will hold you to it...
Lucina: ...Why did I let him go...
Flavia: Chrom, there's something else. Something important. Basilio asked I give you this...
Chrom: Wait... Is that...? Ah... I can feel its power resonating through my whole body...
Flavia: It's Gules, one of the Gemstones you need. Don't ask me why in hell's name the oaf hid it from you. He always did love his surprises, damn him.
Chrom: Whatever his reasons, I accept his gift now, and gladly.
Flavia: It's hard to believe he's truly gone... The larger the man, the larger the void left in his wake...
Lucina: And Khan Basilio was a titan. There is no replacing him. I should have tried harder to convince him...

Say'ri: The scouts have reported back. Walhart's army...has retreated to the imperial capital.
Robin: Retreated?!
Say'ri: It seems the dynast turncloaks are withdrawing their soldiers as well.
Chrom: I don't believe it...
Say'ri: Steiger and Yen'fay have fallen; it's no shock Walhart might pull back to regroup. And of course the dynasts now see cracks forming in the empire...
Chrom: Maybe they'll reconsider which side they will fight for?
Lucina: Possibly, if they can see an advantage in it for themselves. With them or not, it seems a decisive battle is upon us.
Say'ri: To think, how quickly our fortunes have shifted...
Robin: We have Basilio to thank for it. For all of it. His sacrifice made it all possible... If only there had been some other way...
Flavia: No second guessing! Basilio would have hated that. You did your duty as best you were able, same as he. Now clear the doubts out of that clever head of yours—we're going to need it. The fate of Valm—and all our homelands—hangs on this next battle. For the sake of history and all our fallen comrades... We will bring this empire crashing down!
Chrom: Shepherds! Comrades! Soldiers! We make for the capital! This "Conqueror's" reign ends now!
/***EOF***/
@Intro 
Lissa: I told you—it's getting dark already! ...Ech! And now the bugs are out! Noisy, disgusting bugs that buzz around and crawl all over and bite you when—Agh! Won goph in mah mouph! Blech! Ptooey!
Chrom: Aw, come on now, Lissa. Hardship builds character. Want to help me gather firewood?
Lissa: Tpht! Tpht! Yeeeeeuck! ...I think I swallowed it... I'll pass on finding firewood, thanks. I think I've built QUITE enough character for one day!
Robin: We should probably think about food. I don't know about you, but I'm starving.
Frederick: Yes, I should think a little hunting and gathering is in order. Now, who wants to clear a campsite?

Chrom: Mmm... It's been too long since I last had bear meat. Delicious! ...What's wrong, Lissa? Dig in.
Lissa: Pass! ...Gods, couldn't you spear us an animal normal people eat for once? I mean, come on! Who eats bear?! You're meddling with the food chain. Right, Robin? ...Uh, Robin?
Robin: *Munch, munch, slurp*
Lissa: *Sigh* I suppose a person would enjoy just about anything after not eating for days...
Chrom: Just eat it, Lissa. Meat is meat.
Lissa: Since when does meat smell like old boots?! Wait, I take that back—boots smell better!
Frederick: Every experience makes us stronger, milady. Even those we don't enjoy.
Lissa: Really? Then why don't I see YOU eating, Frederick?
Frederick: Me? Oh, well... I'm not hungry. I...I had a large lunch! Yes, quite.
Lissa: Yeah right, Frederick!

Chrom: ...Huh?

Lissa: *Yawn* What's wrong, Big Brother?
Chrom: Sorry, I didn't mean to wake you, but... Something is amiss...
Lissa: Define "something".
Chrom: I'm not sure... I think I'll have a look around.
Lissa: Not alone, you won't! I'm coming too.
Chrom: Heh. Thanks, Lissa.

Lissa: It sure is dark. ...And quiet. Where did the birds go?
Chrom: Something is wrong here...

Lissa: Aaah! Chrom!
Chrom: Gods, what— Agh! What is this madness?! Lissa, stay close!

Chrom: Lissa, run.
Lissa: Huh?
Chrom: I mean it! Go!

Chrom: Hey! This way!

Lissa: Chrom, what IS that?!

Chrom: Lissa, you'd better stand back.

Chrom: Lissa!

Marth:  Help!
Chrom: ...Right!

Chrom: ...Quite an entrance. What's your name?

Frederick: Milord! Milady! Are you hurt?
Lissa: Frederick! Robin!
Robin: Are such horrific creatures commonplace in these lands?
Chrom: They're not from Ylisse, I promise you that.
Frederick: No one is injured, then? Thank the gods...
Lissa: Thank the masked man who saved me! If it wasn't for him, I'd be... Hey, where did he go?
Frederick: We can worry about him later, AFTER we put these...things...to the blade. Eyes open, now. We know nothing about this enemy.
Chrom: Right.

@Battle 
Robin: Hmm? Are those...
Frederick: Abandoned forts, yes.
Robin: Then we should take shelter in them whenever possible. No doubt they will offer distinct advantages in battle.

Sully: Captain Chrom! Wait! I'm coming! ...Agh, I knew I shouldn'ta left 'em. All right, you ash-faced freaks! Which one of ya wants to try my lance on for size first? I know just the spot for it: shoved right up your—

Virion: Hold, milady!
Sully: Muh?
Virion: Life may be long, but attraction is fleeting! Would you leave me in your sweet dust? Leave war to the warriors, dear bird! A beauty such as you need wage only love.
Sully: ...The hell are you?!
Virion: Ha! Is the lady intrigued? Of course you are—it's only natural. I am myth and legend! I am he who strides large across history's greatest stage! The man who puts the "arch" in "archer"! My name, dear lady, is Vi—
Sully: Sorry, Ruffles—no time for this. Onward!

Virion: Virion! ...Er, my name. It's Virion. W-wait! Where are you going? Pray, at least tell me your name!

Sully: I'm Sully. ...And I'm a Shepherd.
Virion: "Sully"! How divine! A starkly beautiful name, as befits its owner, truly. Will you marry me, my dearest Sully?
Sully: Will I what now? Oh wait, I get it... This is a joke. And when I put my boot through your face—that's the punch line.
Virion: I realize my manly figure and noble bearing can be overwhelming. 'Tis common! So please, don't feel pressured to answer right a—
Sully: How's THIS for an answer?! 
Virion: OOF! G-goodness, but those shapely legs certainly can kick, can't they... P-please, milady! Allow me to accompany you, at least! Mine is a cold, empty world without you. I shall be your most willing servant, and you, in turn, will give my life purpose...
Sully: *Sigh* Fine... Anything to shut you up. ...What? Stop staring at me like that!

Virion: Goddesses and gentlemen, might I have your attention? I, as it happens, am an archer! ...The archest of archers, in fact. As such, I attack most effectively from a distance. So kindly keep me one step away from peril, if you would!

@Boss
Risen Chief: Ryaaargh! 

Risen Chief: Nnh...aaagh... 

@End 
Frederick: It seems all the creatures are vanquished. This young man took care of the others.
Marth: ......
Lissa: Um, I never got to thank you...for before. So...thank you. You were very brave.
Chrom: You saved my sister's life. My name is Chrom. Might I ask yours?
Marth: You may call me Marth.
Chrom: Marth? After the heroic king of old? You certainly fight like a hero. Where did you learn your way with a sword?
Marth: I'm not here to talk about me. This world teeters at the brink of a horrible calamity. What you saw tonight was but a prelude. You have been warned.

Lissa: Huh? What's teetering where now? Hey, wait!
Robin: Not much for conversation, is he?
Frederick: It appears his skills lie elsewhere. I wager we'll hear his name again... But for now I'm more concerned about the capital. We should make haste.

Robin: So this is Ylisstol, capital of Ylisse... I've never seen so many people!
Frederick: It appears the capital was spared the chaos we encountered, thank the gods. I see no evidence of the great quake. It must've been limited to the forest.
Lissa: Well, that's a relief!
Old Villager: Look! The exalt has come to see us!

Robin: The exalt is your ruler, yes?
Frederick: Yes. Her name is Lady Emmeryn.
Robin: Is it safe for her to walk among commoners like this?
Frederick: The exalt is a symbol of peace—Ylisse's most prized quality. Long ago, at the dawn of our age, the fell dragon tried to destroy the world. But the first exalt joined forces with the divine dragon and laid the beast low. Exalt Emmeryn reminds us all of the peace we fought for then.
Chrom: With Plegia poking at our borders, the people need her. She's a calming presence, when some might otherwise call for war.
Robin: Then the Ylissean people are indeed lucky to have her.

Lissa: She's also the best big sister anyone could ask for!
Robin: Yes, I imagine she... Wait, what? She's your... But wouldn't that make you and Chrom...
Frederick: The prince and princess of the realm, yes. You remember Chrom's name and not this?
Robin: You said you were "shepherds"!
Chrom: And so we are...in a manner of speaking. We just have a LOT of sheep.
Robin: C-Chrom... I mean, Prince Chrom! Sire! Forgive my dreadful manners!
Chrom: Just Chrom is fine. I've never been much for formalities.
Robin: The prince and princess... That explains why Frederick tolerates all the teasing, eh?
Frederick: Indeed. Oh, the sacrifices I make for the good of the realm...
Chrom: It looks like Emm is returning to the palace. Would you like to meet her?

Emmeryn: Chrom! Lissa! Welcome home. Oh, and good day, Frederick. How fared you all?
Chrom: Well—we shouldn't have any bandit problems for a while.
Emmeryn: Wonderful. And our people?
Chrom: Safe as they can be, Emm. But we still need to watch the borders. The brigands crossed over from Plegia.
Phila: Forgive me, milord. My pegasus knights should have intercepted them.
Chrom: No, Phila. Your duty was here, with the exalt.
Lissa: And besides, we had plenty of help!
Emmeryn: Ah, you speak of your new companion here?
Chrom: This is Robin. He/She fought bravely with us against the brigands. I've decided to make him/her a Shepherd.
Emmeryn: It sounds as though Ylisse owes you a debt of gratitude, Robin.
Robin: Not at all, milady!
Frederick: Forgive me, Your Grace, but I must speak. Robin claims to have lost his/her memory, but it is only that: a claim. We cannot rule out the possibility that he/she is a brigand himself or even a Plegian spy.
Chrom: Frederick!
Emmeryn: Yet you allowed him/her into the castle, Chrom. Does this man/woman have your trust?
Chrom: Yes. He/She risked his/her life for our people. That's good enough for me.
Emmeryn: Well then, Robin... It seems you've earned Chrom's faith, and as such you have mine as well.
Robin: Milady.
Emmeryn: But thank you, Frederick, for your prudence, as always. Chrom and Lissa are blessed to have so tireless a guardian. I do hope they remember to mention that from time to time...
Frederick: They occasionally express something akin to gratitude, Your Grace. Phila. I assume you've heard about the deathly creatures we encountered, yes?
Phila: Yes, milord. They've been sighted all across Ylisse.
Emmeryn: Chrom, we are about to hold council. I was hoping you could join us.
Chrom: Of course.
Lissa: I think that's our cue, Robin! C'mon, there's a place I want to show you.
/***EOF***/
@Intro 
Robin: Ah, take it all in! Breathtaking... Somehow our troubles feel a lifetime away out here.
Chrom: Yet in truth, we're headed straight toward them... I should be grateful the Plegians delivered us this fleet, as promised. But it's my first time on a vessel, and my legs... I never fancied myself a sea captain.
Lucina: This is my first voyage as well. In my time, all ships were destroyed. Smashed to pieces, along with their ports.
Chrom: Lucina... Something I've been meaning to ask... After you stopped Emm's assassination... Why didn't you stay with us?
Lucina: I felt I had no other choice. I could not risk altering history any more than necessary. I sought only to divert events that directly led to Grima's return.
Lissa: Hey, so wait—what about the guys who tried to kill Chrom in the gardens? What would've happened if you didn't save him?
Lucina: He would have been gravely wounded. And those wounds would have played a part in the tragedies to come.
Lissa: Whoa! Good thing you changed things, huh?
Lucina: If indeed they have changed... The river of time always favors its original course. Take the exalt's death... I stalled it, yes, but in the end I was not able to prevent it.
Chrom: ...You did what you could.
Lucina: I was so certain it was over. That I'd saved the world. But time simply found another way back to its course. Perhaps the task is simply too great... Perhaps if I'd done something differently? I replay events in my head, over and over...
Chrom: Don't. You did your best. And you saved me, after all.
Lucina: You're kind, Father. But nothing is certain... Another could take your life. Time could find a way...
Chrom: ...Do you know how I die?
Lucina: Only rumors... I was told you fell in a great battle, fought to sway your destiny. ...And that you were murdered— betrayed by someone dear to you.

Robin: Nngh! Ah...
Chrom: Robin? What is it?
Robin: M-my head... I don't... F-forgive me. I'm fine.
Lucina: ...... After your murder and Grima's return, I took the name Marth and fought back. I prayed to the Hero-King for a small part of the strength he used to save the world. But I need this subterfuge no longer. I choose to fight as Lucina now. The name that reminds me of the strength in the man and woman who chose it.
Chrom: A strength shared by the woman who bears it.

Frederick: The pegasus knights report the Valmese fleet matches ours, ship for ship.
Chrom: Your tone tells me this is not good news.
Frederick: Their troops vastly outnumber ours. Our vessels are half-full, at best. But every Valmese ship is packed from stem to stern with soldiers.
Chrom: If we attempt to board them in a straight fight, we'll be slaughtered.
Flavia: We've little choice but to try anyway. Plegia had no men to spare, but they were generous with other supplies...including oil. Perhaps a clever tactician could find a use for that.
Robin: Hmm... Perhaps he/she could.
Flavia: If we can put their ships to flame, they'd have nowhere to escape to. We could—
Basilio: You could roast us all like hams! Are you truly so eager to die, woman?!
Flavia: Do you have a better idea, oaf?! ...The problem is we have no catapults. Hmm... How to get the lit oil on their decks without our own ships getting caught in the blaze?
Robin: Hmm... Unless we WANT our ships caught in the blaze...
Basilio: Why in the gods' named would... Well, I know better than to question Robin. Especially not when he/she has that look in his/her eyes. Gods save us from what he/she's cooked up this time—let's just hope it's not us!
Robin: Chrom, I have an idea.
Chrom: Those words from your mouth are music to my ears, Robin.
Robin: But for my plan to work we'll need to disrupt their chain of command... Our strongest team would need to board their lead ship and kill their general. As our best captain I'd have you head the squad, but you ARE the prince, so...
Chrom: Yes, I AM the prince, so no one can order me NOT to go. I will lead the assault!
Robin: Then this plan truly stands a chance.
Chrom: Heh... So much has changed since we found you that day, lying in the open field... Hard to believe you determine the fate of our entire army now...our entire people. Destiny has a strange way.
Robin: ...No, Chrom. Not destiny.
Chrom: What?
Robin: We're not pawns of some scripted fate. I believe we're more. Much more.
Chrom: How do you mean?
Robin: There's something between us all. Something that keeps us together... Like...invisible ties, connecting us. Giving us strength... WE forged these ties. WE strengthen them. If we preserve them, or break them, it will be by our choices, not some "destiny"...
Chrom: ...Robin... I think this salty air might have gone to your head, hah!
Robin: All right, all right—perhaps enough philosophy for one day... There are still details to discuss.
Chrom: Indeed there are! And preparations to be made! Oh, and, Robin... If we are all bound by these invisible ties, I thank the gods it's with you.
Robin: ......
Chrom: Now then, everyone! Look lively! We have work to do!

@Battle 
Ignatius: One ship against three of ours? They're either very brave or very stupid... Either way, their bodies will float on the long sea before the day is done.

@Boss
Ignatius: Arrogant pup! The seas are my home, and they will be your grave!

Ignatius: Strike me down, and ten will take my place... You...have...lost!

@End 
Chrom: Robin! Their general has fallen! I'm giving the signal! All appointed ships, change course! Head right at them! Ramming speed!
Soldier: ...Gods and thunder! Any second now!
Chrom: Steady... Steaaaady...
Soldier: We're right on top of them!
Chrom: NOW! JUUUMP!

Lissa: The sea itself is on fire!
Frederick: It worked! It worked!
Flavia: Only you could hatch such a brilliant scheme, Robin. Who else would desert half our vessels and turn them into flaming cannonballs? And there was still enough room on the remaining ships for all our troops. It was so simple, and yet the Valmese never saw it coming. They never considered anyone might be willing to sacrifice half a fleet...
Chrom: We may have won the day, but the war still looms. We must continue on and seize control of their main harbour.
Basilio: Aye, boy! I've had enough of the smoke and smell here for one lifetime, besides.
Chrom: Full speed for Valm!
/***EOF***/
@Intro 
Lucina: There it sits...
Lissa: What's wrong, Lucina?
Lucina: That great skull. I saw it once before, when Emmeryn was sentenced to die. Even then it reminded me of...him...
Chrom: You mean...
Lucina: Yes. Grima, the fell dragon. A cataclysmic war ushered his return... It's said he fed on the souls of the fallen before turning upon the living...

@Cutscene 
Grima: So ends the human race. The future is built upon the past... But your kind shall never see it.
Grima: Your mother and father... ...are dead, tiny one.
Grima: And now it is your turn... to DIE!

@Intro 
Lucina: ...Whether these are his true bones or just an effigy, I cannot say. But I know this: we cannot let that monster come back to life.
Chrom: We'll stop him, Lucina. I promise. The future can be changed. You've proven it already. And with all of us together, we can turn the course of history.
Lucina: I want to believe that, Father. I want to believe that, more than anything...

Robin: (Psst! Chrom!)
Chrom: (...Trouble?)
Robin: (I saw armed soldiers hiding in the shadows as we were shown in...)
Chrom: (Then it sounds like we have our answer already...)

Aversa: Well met, milord.
Validar: Prince Chrom! Welcome.
Chrom: ...I was told you had something you wished to give me.
Validar: My my! No time for courtesy, milord? Such impatience... Do you really want it that badly? This concerns me. The Gemstones and the Fire Emblem can be...treacherous artifacts. A fact Plegia and the Grimleal sadly know all too well...
Lucina: "Sadly"? You speak ill of when the first exalt used them against the fell dragon?
Validar: Yes I do, intruder!
Lucina: ...Intruder?
Validar: You are not supposed to be here. You must be destroyed!
Chrom: You wouldn't dare!
Validar: Give me the Fire Emblem... Give it to me!
Lucina: You mad scoundrel! This is a declaration of war!
Validar: I will only ask one last time: give me the Emblem. Now!
Chrom: ...Never.
Validar: Then this parley is over. Guards! Seize them!
Chrom: Just as we thought...
Robin: Chrom, this way! Quickly!

Aversa: Robin had an escape route all planned out... How preciously clever of him/her. You should be proud.
Validar: Hmph. If he/she had half the wits of his/her father, he/she would know they've already lost.

@Battle 
Chrom: We have to get out of here now! Cut down anyone who gets in the way!
Algol: Heh heh. Signal the men in hiding, and give these Ylissean scum no quarter!

@Boss 
Algol: Heh heh... Leaving Plegia so soon? No, please, stay awhile. Stay...forever! 

Algol: No! Hyaughhh... 

@End 
Chrom: Almost there! The exit is just— Wait. Do you feel...

Chrom: Hnrgh...
Validar: Run all you like—you can't escape fate. Don't you know that?
Lucina: Father!
Validar: The Fire Emblem. Give it freely, or it will be taken.
Chrom: Just try it!
Validar: Heh heh... I won't need to do anything... Robin!
Robin: Nngh! Ahh...
Chrom: Robin?
Validar: Seize the Emblem and bring it to me.
Robin: Nngh, no, I... Aarrrgh!
Chrom: Robin... What are you...doing?!

Validar: Well done, my child. At last, the Fire Emblem belongs to me. And with my Gemstone, it is complete! Now, to set the Table and perform the rite... 
Chrom: D-damn you, Validar! Nngh...
Robin: Ah! Nngh...ahh... What have I...done?!
Chrom: Robin! We must go!
Robin: Chrom, I'm sorry! I don't...know what came over me... I'm so sorry!
Chrom: I know you are, but right now we need to focus on getting out of here!
Robin: ...Understood.

Robin: What I did... It's...it's unforgivable.
Chrom: Enough of that, Robin. Save your energy for helping us track him down.
Robin: No, I... You must leave me behind. He could use me again... I can't be trusted! This cursed blood in me must somehow give...my father...dominion over me...
Chrom: But he never had full control... You can fight it, Robin. And if he expects you to blindly obey, that might be the surprise we need.
Robin: Chrom, you...you put too much faith in me.
Frederick: Get back on that horse, Robin. You can't give up now!
Robin: But you're not listening! I told you, I'm not—
Chrom: The deed is done. But you can still try to undo the damage. It's not too late!
Robin: All right. I'll...I'll try.
Lucina: ......

@Dialogue 
^start 
Robin: ......
Lucina: Beg pardon, Robin. Might I have a word?
Robin: ...Lucina. What is it?
Lucina: It's about my father. I have memories of him, you know. From when I was little. Before he...died.
Robin: I see...
Lucina: He was courageous, and kind, and everyone spoke fondly of him. People say he was brave right up until the very end. I always yearned to know him better. And now that I do... I can see that the world will be robbed of a very great man. ...I won't allow that to happen.
Robin: I understand. You love him. ...We all do.
Lucina: Robin, I... Please, forgive me...
Robin: Lucina?!
Lucina: Stay where you are, Robin! I have no choice. I must kill you.
Robin: What?! What madness is this?!
Lucina: In my future, you... You are my father's murderer.
Robin: No! That's insane! Why would I kill Chrom?
Lucina: I was not certain myself, until now... I knew he had been killed by his closest friend. Having witnessed your bond with him, I doubted it could be so... But today's events make it clear. You are at Validar's mercy. I suspect it's he who forces you to take my father's life, and very soon...
Robin: Lucina, wait.
Lucina: If my father is right, then we can change our fates. If this dark future is to be averted, sacrifices must be made. I am sorry, Robin! I know this is murder, I... I know that...
Robin: Lucina, you don't have to—
Lucina: Don't make it harder! Don't resist, and your death will be swift and painless. If you hold any love for Chrom, then let this be done...
Robin: ...Very well. I forfeit my life.
Lucina: Godspeed, Robin.
Chrom: Enough!
Lucina: Father, you don't—
Chrom: Lucina, lower your sword...
Lucina: But, Father—
Chrom: LOWER YOUR SWORD!
Lucina: A-all right. ...I can explain.
Chrom: There's no need. You're not the only one who can eavesdrop. I heard every word. Lucina, I know your heart is in the right place... But I trust Robin. You cannot shake my faith in him/her.
Lucina: This is not about trust! He'll/She'll be the death of you!
Chrom: Robin and I have held fast through good times and ill... We swore to be two halves of a greater whole. You underestimate the strength of those ties, the bonds we share. I believe in them more than some foretold "destiny."
Lucina: That is easier to say when you haven't seen it yourself...
Chrom: Lucina, aren't our ties stronger here now than they were in your future? You said so yourself. In this flow of time we are bound tighter than ever, you and I. Not just as father and daughter... But as friends. We can change things—we already have...and we will again.
Lucina: ...Very well, Father. I would ask your forgiveness, Robin, but I cannot expect it.
Robin: I do forgive you, Lucina. You needn't speak of it again.
Lucina: I pray... That is, I trust the both of you will prove me wrong. And that this future will fall to pieces before your bond ever would.

Robin: ......
Lucina: Beg pardon, Mother. Might I have a word?
Robin: ...Lucina. What is it?
Lucina: It's about Father. I have memories of him, you know. From when I was little. Before he...died.
Robin: I see...
Lucina: He was courageous, and kind, and everyone spoke fondly of him. People say he was brave up until the very end. I always yearned to know him better. And now that I do... I can see that the world will be robbed of a very great man. ...I won't allow that to happen.
Robin: I understand. You love him. ...As do I.
Lucina: Mother, I... Please, forgive me...
Robin: Lucina?!
Lucina: Stay where you are, Mother! I have no choice. I must kill you.
Robin: What?! What madness is this?!
Lucina: In my future, you... You kill Father.
Robin: No! That's insane! Why would I kill Chrom?
Lucina: I was not certain myself, until now... I knew he had been killed by his closest friend. Having witnessed your bond with him, I doubted it could be so... But today's events make it clear. You are at Validar's mercy. I suspect it's he who forces you to take Father's life, and very soon...
Robin: Lucina, wait.
Lucina: If Father is right, then we can change our fates. If this dark future is to be averted, sacrifices must be made. I am sorry, Robin! I know this is matricide, I... I know that...
Robin: Lucina, you don't have to—
Lucina: Don't make it harder. It...will be swift and painless. If you hold any love for Chrom, then let this be done...
Robin: ...... My life is yours. It always has been.
Lucina: D-don't say that, Mother! Don't! That only...makes it harder.
Robin: I would give my life for Chrom. ...And for you.
Lucina: Mother, please...
Robin: I know you will be quick about it. I love you, Lucina.
Lucina: M-Mother...
Robin: ...I'm ready. Do what you must.
Lucina: I... I...
Robin: ......
Lucina: Damn me! I can't do it! I love you too much! I'm sorry, Mother, I'm so sorry! P-please forgive me!
Robin: My poor girl...there's nothing to forgive.
Chrom: Are you done, Lucina?
Lucina: Father! I... I can explain!
Chrom: No need. You're not the only one who can eavesdrop. I heard every word. Lucina, I know your heart is in the right place... But I trust Robin. You cannot shake my faith in her. Robin and I have held fast through good times and ill... We swore to be two halves of a greater whole. You underestimate the strength of those ties, the bonds we share. I believe in them more than some foretold "destiny."
Lucina: That is easier to say when you haven't seen it yourself...
Chrom: Lucina, aren't our ties stronger here now than they were in your future? You said so yourself. In this flow of time we are bound tighter than ever, you and I. Not just as father and daughter... But as friends. We can change things—we already have...and we will do so again.
Lucina: ...Very well, Father. Mother I...I hope someday you will find it in your heart to forgive me... And I pray... That is, I trust the both of you will prove me wrong. That the future will crack and fall apart before our family bond ever does.

Robin: ......
Lucina: Beg pardon, Robin. Might I have a word?
Robin: ...Lucina. What is it?
Lucina: It's about my father. I have memories of him, you know. From when I was little. Before he...died.
Robin: I see...
Lucina: He was courageous, and kind, and everyone spoke fondly of him. People say he was brave up until the very end. I always yearned to know him better. And now that I do... I can see that the world will be robbed of a very great man. ...I won't allow that to happen.
Robin: I understand. You love him. ...We all do.
Lucina: Robin, I... Please, forgive me.
Robin: Lucina?!
Lucina: Stay where you are, Robin! I have no choice. I must kill you.
Robin: What?! What madness is this?!
Lucina: In my future, you... You are my father's murderer.
Robin: No! That's insane! Why would I kill Chrom?
Lucina: I was not certain myself, until now... I knew he had been killed by his closest friend. Having witnessed your bond with him, I doubted it could be so... But today's events make it clear. You are at Validar's mercy. I suspect it's he who forces you to take my father's life, and very soon...
Robin: Lucina, wait.
Lucina: If my father is right, then we can change our fates. If this dark future is to be averted, sacrifices must be made. I am sorry, Robin! I know this is murder, I... I know that...
Robin: Lucina, you don't have to—
Lucina: Don't make it harder! Don't resist, and your death will be swift and painless. If you hold any love for Chrom, then let this be done...
Robin: ...... Very well. My life is yours... It always has been.
Lucina: D-don't look at me like that! I love you! ...Do you have any idea how hard this is for me?
Robin: I would give my life for Chrom. ...And for you.
Lucina: ......
Robin: Just...promise me you'll find someone else who cares for you. Promise you won't be alone... I want you to be happy, Lucina. That's all I've ever wanted.
Lucina: N-no... Ah gods, no...
Robin: ...I'm ready now. Do what you must.
Lucina: I... I must...
Robin: ......
Lucina: Damn me! I can't do it! I love you too much! I'm sorry, Robin. I'm s-so sorry! Please forgive me!
Robin: Easy now. Easy. It's all right...
Chrom: Are you done, Lucina?
Lucina: Father! I...I can explain!
Chrom: There's no need. You're not the only one who can eavesdrop. I heard every word. Lucina, I know your heart is in the right place... But I trust Robin. You cannot shake my faith in him. Robin and I have held fast through good times and ill... We swore to be two halves of a greater whole. You underestimate the strength of those ties, the bonds we share. I believe in them more than some foretold "destiny."
Lucina: That is easier to say when you haven't seen it yourself...
Chrom: Lucina, aren't our ties stronger here now than they were in your future? You said so yourself. In this flow of time we are bound tigher than ever, you and I. Not just as father and daughter... But as friends. We can change things—we already have...and we will again.
Lucina: ...Very well, Father. I would ask your forgiveness, Robin, with all my heart. And I pray... That is, I trust the both of you will prove me wrong. ...That this future will fall to pieces before your bond ever will.
^end
/***EOF***/
@Intro 
Chrom: All these strange travelers... What's happening here?
Lissa: Let's ask 'em! Um, excuse me, sir? ...Sir?
Villager: ...the appointed...time... ...to the Dragon's...Table... ...our prayers...Grima...
Lissa: Riiiiiight... I'll just be backing away slowly then...
Frederick: Sire!
Chrom: Frederick! Have the scouts returned?
Frederick: Yes, milord, and with grim news. Validar has moved to a great altar to Grima known as the Dragon's Table. What's more, it seems all the Grimleal in Plegia are headed there as well. It's as if they're being drawn by some unseen force...
Chrom: Any idea what it all means?
Frederick: Who can say, sire? They speak only gibberish and plod on as if possessed.
Chrom: The cataclysm in Lucina's future... This shows all the signs of leading to it. Damn! This destiny is a stubborn business...
Lucina: We cannot give up.
Chrom: And we will not. We make for this Dragon's Table, and quickly! Come, everyone!

@Battle 
Aversa: The Ylisseans have finally caught up to us, milord.
Validar: Delay them. But carefully... We must reclaim Robin's power.
Aversa: Ah, yes. Don't worry, I'll take extra care with Daddy's special little boy/girl.
Chrom: Validar!
Validar: Fools! Do you know where you've come?
Chrom: Return the Fire Emblem now, and we can end this!
Validar: Aaah ha ha ha ha! You would...end this?
Chrom: Yes, once and for all.
Validar: My dear boy, we already know how this story ends—you and I both! And yet you rush here... Are you so eager to meet the fell dragon yourself? Or perhaps your own fatal destiny—you would have that realized first? Ha ha!
Chrom: To hell with your destiny. I'll write a new ending.
Aversa: Oh ho ho, so now you believe you can change fate? And here I thought your exalted sister had delusions of grandeur...
Chrom: We've done it already.
Aversa: Your victory over sad little Gangrel? Or perhaps Walhart's defeat? Those were meant to happen. They were preordained. You are just another fool in motley, capering on the stage!
Lissa: But...what about Emmeryn!
Aversa: You changed only the method of her death. Either way, she was planted in the ground...
Frederick: But that was Gangrel's will... Not yours... Not Validar's...
Aversa: You aren't listening. All of this—every word and action—has been orchestrated... Gangrel held the exalt in contempt, yes, so Validar and I used him. In life AND death. The king's demise threw Plegia into chaos. It drove the people to Grima... Now their life force and rancor can be laid before the fell dragon en masse.
Chrom: You couldn't mean...
Aversa: It is called the Table for a reason, you naive little man. It is where Grima feeds! The Grimleal have gladly offered themselves to him for ages. Even now, they pray for his return... Today the Table overflows with bounty, and their prayers will be answered!
Chrom: I will never allow that to happen!
Aversa: But it already HAS happened in our future. This moment was set a millennium ago.
Lucina: How could anyone give their life willingly to that...thing? That monster!
Chrom: I will stop you! I will stop Grima!
Aversa: Goodness! Now you're starting to sound like Walhart, the big bully... He intended to destroy Grima as well, you know. ...Our thanks, incidentally, for taking him off the stage for us.
Chrom: Rrgh... That's why you gave us your ships and treasure but no soldiers... Get rid of Walhart, but keep the faithful Plegians to set your god's Table...
Validar: Aversa, it is time. I must prepare.
Aversa: As you command, Master.
Chrom: Validar! ...VALIDAR! 
Aversa: Master Validar is not to be disturbed. But fear not, I have brought the Deadlords to keep you entertained. These 12 generals were great warriors in life...and even greater, now, in death! I would introduce them one by one, but well, as you'll see, they're not much for talk. Besides, you'll meet them all soon enough!

@Boss 
Aversa: Hee hee. Looking for attention? One at a time, love. 

Aversa: Ooh... You play rough... But the ritual has already begun. You are too late! Farewell! perhaps we shall meet again? Oh, actually...I suppose not! heh heh! 

%Robin,Aversa
Robin: I'll never understand minions like you and Excellus. No lives of your own... Living only to serve at the beck and call of your masters. Pathetic.
Aversa: Oh? I might say as much about your relationship to the prince... And please, don't lump me in with that half-witted little toad. Excellus was nothing but a pawn on our board. Another actor on our stage. His ambition was our insurance against Walhart's threat. If you had failed, he might have destroyed the empire from the inside. But in the end, he was just another puppet whose strings we had to cut.
Robin: Then you've confirmed my theory.
Aversa: Yes, I promised him the Plegian throne in exchange for the Emblem... He jumped at the offer! Well, as much as the fat little piggie could jump... Men are all the same. Learn their ambition, and you have them by the— Oho... Well, perhaps Excellus was a bit different in that respect...
Robin: Here I thought him the lowest form of slime imaginable, but you win handily...
Aversa: Yes, well, we play the roles we're given, Robin, as you'll soon discover.
Robin: If we all stand on a great stage, I'll be happy to assist with your exit!
Aversa: Oh really now, how amusing... You're so cute when you try to be clever. But Master Validar already considers you stronger and smarter than I... Whatever shall I do if he decides you're more witty as well? Perhaps I'd best kill you before you ripen and become his everything...
Robin: Before I "ripen"?
Aversa: ...Shhh. Nothing to worry your pretty little head over. Focus on our battle, instead! if you truly are as gifted as my master says... There is no need for me to hold back!

%Chrom,Aversa
Chrom: A final question, witch, before you die—
Aversa: Oh? Then perhaps one final answer, boy, before you fail...
Chrom: Who is Validar? Why do you follow him?
Aversa: He is...a father to me.
Chrom: ...What?! But... You're Robin's sister?!
Aversa: Aha ha ha! You damn fool! not literally... But he did raise me as if I were his own. Taught me everything... I was a poor orphaned wretch with dirt for food, yet Master Validar took me in. He provided when others would have watched me starve. I would never presume that he loves me... But he is everything I know of love. I would gladly die at his command.
Chrom: Even knowing his actions will destroy the world?
Aversa: But he IS the world—and it is YOU that would destroy HIM! From where I stand, YOU are the only aggressor here. How Robin lives with the shame, attacking his/her own blood...
Chrom: Robin sees beyond himself/herself, to the larger reality. One person's life means nothing in the shadow of millions.
Aversa: A sweet sentiment, and easily spoken when you bear no love for the one... But more difficult when the sacrifice was your exalted sister, wasn't it? I don't expect you to see the world through my eyes, Prince. But I won't pretend to understand how things look through yours.
Chrom: ...Then I suppose there is nothing more to say.
Aversa: No, I suppose there isn't.

@End 
Chrom: Damn! She escaped! Aversa wouldn't leave Validar before he was ready, even with her wounds. His preparations must be complete...
Lucina: We have to stop him! My future is upon us!
Chrom: We will, Lucina. I swear to you—we will.
/***EOF***/
@Intro
Chrom: Up there! 

Validar: '  You fool!

Validar:  *laughs* Die!

Chrom: This is it! Our final battle! You're one of us, Robin, and no "destiny" can change that. Now let's kill this dastard and be done with it!

Chrom: Robin, we have to get closer. Let's move!
Chrom:  All right, my turn.
Chrom:  Go ahead, Robin!

@Battle 
Validar: Ha ha ha! Why do you resist?

Chrom: Good, he's almost within reach. Let's move in and strike!

@Boss
Validar: Gya ha ha! Fools! Struggle all you want! You cannot unwrite what is already written!

@Character-Falls
Chrom: Robin, I...I'm Sorry. Just..run while you can...
Validar: Gya ha ha! You can't escape it! That's why it's called destiny!

Chrom: Robin! No! This can't be how it ends!
Validar: Heh heh heh... GYA HA HA HA!

@End 
Validar: This isn't over... Damn you BOTH!

Chrom: Are you all right? That's the end of him. Thanks to you we carried the day. We can rest easy now. 

Chrom: At long last...

Chrom: ...What's wrong? Hey, hang on—

Chrom: This is not your— your fault... Promise me you'll escape from this place... Please, go...
/***EOF***/
@Intro 
Aversa: The enemy has taken the field, milord.
Gangrel: Back already? Ha! It feels as though we just said our good-byes...
Aversa: Our scouts report they are in surprisingly good spirits.
Gangrel: Since when do you trust our scouts? Besides, what does it matter? They're armed like beggars compared to us! I could break their ranks as easily as I break wind.
Aversa: I'd love to hear the song the bards make of that.
Gangrel: Aversa, there is a truth about he world this Ylissean welp must learn. A man is either strong... ...or he is dead! Bwa ha haaa!

Soldier: Y-Your Highness! Dire news!
Gangrel: Oh? Speak.
Soldier: Our troops are laying down their weapons and deserting en masse! Please, sire... I am but a messenger... Have mercy...

Frederick: Milord, I've a report from Khan Flavia. The Plegian army is in disarray.
Chrom: How do you mean?
Frederick: It seems man of their soldiers are opposed to further violence. There has been infighting, desertion... Gangrel is trying to stamp out the mutiny by force, but with little success. Outside of a few faithful who serve him directly, his army has all but collapsed.
Chrom: This is incredible news. But why...? ...Emmeryn.
Frederick: Yes, milord. Emmeryn. The report says Gangrel's men chant her name as they abandon the field. Her words, and her sacrifice, have made her a folk hero of sorts.
Chrom: Emmeryn... Why did it take me so long to understand? She believed all people desire peace. She knew, deep down, the Plegians wanted it, too. It just took her to bring it to the surface.
Robin: ......
Chrom: I hope she can see this, wherever she is... Today, we put an end to Mad King Gangrel and bring peace back to the land.

Gangrel: Good day, my little princeling! Still dreaming of your squashed sister?
Chrom: No more talk, Gangrel. Today, you die, and peace returns to Ylisse and Plegia.
Gangrel: Pah! Such hypocrisy! You despise me, wretch! You want to cut me down! You don't know the first thing about peace! No man does!
Chrom: I know more than you ever will.
Gangrel: More than me? More than ME?! Bwa ha! ...You ARE me! When life asks you a question, you answer with blood!
Chrom: Maybe you're right... I will never be my sister. I cannot forgive men like you—men who sow nothing but evil. All I have left arc words and her memory. Were I alone, I would be driven to madness. ...Or worse. But I'm not alone. My friends and brothers-in-arms stand behind me.
Gangrel: ...Are you done? May I vomit now? Bwa ha ha! What a flowery harangue! Men are beasts! Nothing more! We fight! We kill! We devour our prey! Beasts do not stand behind beasts, little prince... They use each other only so long as it suits their own selfish purpose!
Chrom: Perhaps this explains why your own soldiers refuse to stand behind you? You are a poison. A festering wound. And I will do what my sister could not.
Gangrel: Such a clever tongue you have, little prince... It will look quite fetching hanging on my mantle, next to your sister's corpse!

Olivia: Milord, I have come! Am I too late? I don't claim my dance as anything special, but Khan Basilio says it renews the spirit!

@Battle 
Gangrel: Yes—draw closer! Let them charge at me with their RAGE! More of my soldiers shall greet them at every foolish step.

@Boss 
Gangrel: Clinging to each other won't save you maggots when the boot falls!

Gangrel: F-fool of...a prince... Your people care not for you... You are...alone... As every man lives and dies: ...alone...

%Chrom,Gangrel
Gangrel: Come, princeling! I've sharpened my sword just for you!
Chrom: My sister wished for our people to know peace, Gangrel. But as long as you draw breath, it can never come. For Ylisse!

@End 
Soldier: Sire, the remaining Plegian forces are surrendering en masse!
Chrom: Order our forces to cease fighting at once.
Soldier: Yes, sire!

Flavia: Then it's finished. Once their messenger delivers our terms, that's it. We put an end to this bloody business, once and for all.
Chrom: We've won... Somehow I don't feel like celebrating.
Basilio: Victory can be bitter as well as sweet, boy. It's good you learn that now.
Flavia: Regna Ferox lost many good soldiers today. We need to see to our dead. Then it's time to attend to the living and rebuild our army.
Chrom: I'm sorry, Flavia. Your sacrifice will not be forgotten. Ylisse will compensate your nation in whatever fashion—
Flavia: Oh? In that case, how about you hand over the Fire Emblem and we'll call it even? ...Hah! Just a little Feroxi humor. Don't worry about our finances, Chrom. Reparations will fall to Plegia, and I've seen their treasury—they can well afford it.
Basilio: Yes, pity the man who stands between Flavia and a full coffer, boy.
Chrom: Heh, I'll have to remember that when you come to visit Ylisstol.

@Dialogue 
^start 
Chrom: Robin...
Robin: What's wrong, Chrom? You look so serious.
Chrom: I...I think I owe you an apology. This wasn't your war to fight.
Robin: But I chose to fight it.
Chrom: All I've been thinking about is stopping Gangrel, no matter the cost. Even my own life would not have been too high a price to pay.
Robin: It would have been for us! ...And for me.
Chrom: I've been thinking a lot lately, about everything. And about you, Robin. In many ways, you're the best fighter I've ever known...and the best friend. You are a special woman, and I...I wonder if you think of me as more than your leader?
Robin: I think of you as a great man, and...dear to my heart.
Chrom: I never want to let you go, Robin. Does that make me selfish?
Robin: If so, then let me be selfish, too. I would be with you, always.
Chrom: ......
Robin: ......
Chrom: Robin?
Robin: Yes, Chrom?
Chrom: We met under unusual circumstances, but lives have been made from far less. My sister always followed her heart, so now I'm going to follow mine... What I want to ask you... Well, what I mean is... Will you marry me?
Robin: ...Yes.
Chrom: Ha ha! With a word you've made me the happiest man in all the realm! Now I'll need to ask for a bit of patience for the near future... My first duty must be to heal the scars of war and assume my role for the people. But then, we can begin our life together.
Robin: That's all right. I'm a tactician, remember? I'll figure something out.
Chrom: Thank you.
Robin: I can't help but think back to the day we first met... Strange, isn't it, the way fate brought us together? I am a lucky woman to have met you, and luckier still now.
Chrom: I know together we can bring joy back to the royal palace. I'll do everything I can to make the castle a happy home for us...my love.
Robin: My love.

Sully: Ho, Captain! You hurt? I was concerned.
Chrom: No, I'm fine, Sully. I just... Wait. You were...concerned?
Sully: Yes, you arse-head! Concerned! I have a mouth of filth, not a heart of stone.
Chrom: Ha ha! Same old Sully... You know, sometimes I forget... You've always been there for me. You've been fighting at my side for years, you know?
Sully: Of course I know! I was there, remember?!
Chrom: Hold on, Sully, I'm being serious. Just listen for a moment. You've been coming to my rescue for as long as the Shepherds have existed. And I've needed a lot of rescuing...
Sully: You dolt, don't you know that's because I... *Ahem* I mean, it's my duty, sir. But you sell yourself short, Captain. Most men would collapse rather than suffer a fraction of what you've been through. But you shoulder it alone, and without complaint. You're a damn good man! You're...amazing.
Chrom: ......
Sully: ......
Chrom: Sully, what you said just now...
Sully: ...The arse-head bit?
Chrom: *Sigh* No, after that—about how I go it alone. I don't want to anymore, Sully. I want to have a partner to share it with, the good and the bad, all of it. My sister always followed her heart, so now I'm going to follow mine... Sully...will you marry me?
Sully: ...Har har har! Oh, that's rich, Captain! Damn, you sure know how to... Um, how to... Oh, crap. You're serious aren't you?
Chrom: Perhaps this might answer your question?
Sully: A-a ring?! But this bears the Ylissean crest! You shouldn't—
Chrom: My parents had it made to celebrate my birth. They wanted me to give it to the woman I would spend my life with. Take it. Take it and know I will fight with you and for you until my last breath.
Sully: This is... Oh, Chrom. I can't friggin' believe this!
Chrom: I'll need to ask for a bit of patience for the near future. My first duty must be to heal the scars of war and assume my role for the people. But then, we can begin our life together.
Sully: Oh, I'm not going ANYWHERE! ...It's funny. I've known you so long, we're practically one mind. But I didn't see this coming at all. I feel...happy. Happy beyond belief. What have you done to me, you damned son of a griffon?!
Chrom: I know together we can bring joy back to the royal palace. I'll do everything I can to make the castle a happy home for us...my love.
Sully: Okay, THAT's going to take some getting used to.

Sumia: Captain!
Chrom: Sumia?
Sumia: Oh, Captain! You made it! You're safe!
Flavia: Hoo! Give these two some room!
Chrom: Sumia...you're...choking me...
Sumia: Are you hurt? Grazed, even? You look exhausted!
Lissa: Chrom?! Say something!
Chrom: I'm trying to!
Lissa: Uh-huh. Flavia? Robin? Maybe we should... you know.
Flavia: Carry on, lovebirds.
Chrom: Hey, are you—come on, don't cry.
Sumia: *Sniff* S-sorry! I just...
Chrom: No, don't apologize. I've been so worried about everyone else lately... My sister, our party, my people... It feels nice to have someone worry about me. Especially someone who I... I mean, someone so... So gifted with pegasi.
Sumia: You've been through so much.
Chrom: So many have suffered and died because of my actions. Next to my sister's legacy, I feel I'm already a disappointment...
Sumia: But that's not true! Everyone fought so hard for you! Why would we all do that for a man we didn't believe in?
Chrom: Heh. I see your point... Thanks, Sumia. You always help me see the...brighter side of things.
Sumia: To me, you're the brightest thing!
Chrom: ......
Sumia: ......
Chrom: Sumia...
Sumia: Y-yes?
Chrom: I'm far from a perfect man, and I know you can do better. But whenever you're close...you give me strength. So, what I want to ask is... Will you be my wife?
Sumia: YES! Yes, yes, oh yes!
Chrom: Oh, thank gods! I was worried for a second because... Well, anyway... This is for you.
Sumia: Y-your ring? But it bears the Ylissean crest! Chrom, I...I can't take this.
Chrom: Yes, you can. My parents had it made to celebrate my birth. They wanted me to give it to the woman I would spend my life with. Take it. Please. And know I will love you until the day I die.
Sumia: Capt—Chrom... Thank you. I swear I will return that love to you a hundredfold!
Chrom: Then I am a fortunate man. I'll need to ask for a bit of patience for the near future. My first duty must be to heal the scars of war and assume my role for the people. But then, we can begin our life together.
Sumia: I'll wait as long as it takes! I...I still hardly believe it. This is like a dream. So much pain surrounds us, and yet... I think this is the happiest day of my life.
Chrom: I feel the same way. I know together we can bring joy back to the royal palace. I'll do everything I can to make the castle a happy home for us...my love.
Sumia: My love.

Maribelle: Prince Chrom! Are you hurt?
Chrom: I'm fine, Maribelle. Sorry, I didn't mean to worry you.
Maribelle: I was worried about Lissa! Who would protect her if something were to befall you?
Chrom: Oh. I...I see. Forgive me.
Maribelle: I'm... I'm sorry, that wasn't how I wanted that to—
Chrom: Don't be sorry. When we lost Emmeryn, I was lost in my own pain. I was selfish... I couldn't be there to offer comfort to Lissa. ...But it was all right, because an amazing woman WAS there for her, all along...
Maribelle: Lissa is a treasure. She's the best friend I could ever have. But I'll also always...
Chrom: ...Yes?
Maribelle: I'll always be there for... Oh, don't make me say it!
Chrom: Maribelle.
Maribelle: Y-yes?
Chrom: I know I'm not perfect... I'm rash, I can be rude... I'm far from the gentleman you deserve. But I've seen the love you are capable of, and I've grown so very fond of you... My sister always followed her heart, so now I'm going to follow mine... Maribelle... Would you be my wife?
Maribelle: Y-your wife?! Oh Chrom, are you sincere? This is no jest?!
Chrom: No jest, Maribelle, I swear. And to prove it...
Maribelle: B-but...this is your royal ring! Prince Chrom, I don't know if I can—
Chrom: Of course you can. My parents had it made to celebrate my birth. They wanted me to give it to the woman I would spend my life with. Take it. Please. And know I will love you until the day I die.
Maribelle: This and your vow are the finest gifts any woman could dream of...
Chrom: Then the finest woman shall have them. I'll need to ask for a bit of patience for the near future. My first duty must be to heal the scars of war and assume my role for the people. But then, we can begin our life together.
Maribelle: I am a patient woman. ...Well, if I try. Together with you and Lissa forever... Oh, I've wanted this my whole life!
Chrom: I know together we can bring joy back to the royal palace. I'll do everything I can to make the castle a happy home for us...my love.
Maribelle: My prince...
^end 

@Dialogue 
Soldier: Sire, a messenger from Regna Ferox.
Chrom: See them in at once.
Soldier: Yes, milord.

Raimi: Prince Chrom, I come on behalf of Khan Regnant Flavia.
Chrom: Flavia? Well, this is a surprise. Is something amiss?
Raimi: I fear so, milord. The khan requests your presence at a summit as soon as you're able.
Chrom: What's happened?
Raimi: Our western neighbors of Valm are no longer acting so neighborly. The emperor, who they name the Conqueror, has launched warships against us.
Chrom: An invasion? Are you certain of this?
Raimi: Yes, milord. The khan hopes to meet with you in Ferox, if it please you.
Frederick: What do you make of this, sire?
Chrom: Ill business to be sure. Raimi, we will meet with Flavia at once...

^start 
Robin: Chrom...
Chrom: I know what you're thinking, Robin, but we owe Regna Ferox a great debt. I must apprise myself of the facts there before deciding on a course of action.
Robin: Nope, not what I was thinking. I was actually going to suggest we discuss strategy as we travel.
Chrom: B-but Lucina is newly born! She needs her mother now.
Robin: You told me House Ylisse has a tradition of wet-nursing. And you and Lissa turned out rather well from where I stand. Lucina is a strong child; she takes after her father. The Brand in her left eye proves it.
Chrom: I'm not just worried about her. ...I'd worry about you as well.
Robin: All the more reason to keep me close at hand, no? Together we can be more than we can alone, remember?
Lissa: Aw, let her come, Chrom! You could use her strategic thinking anyway.
Chrom: All right, Robin. Just promise to stay safe. Lissa and I had Emm of course, but we lost our parents when we were young. I want Lucina to grow up with her whole family around her.
Robin: As do I. You have my word.

Sully: Chrom.
Chrom: I know what you're going to say, Sully, but we owe Regna Ferox a great debt. I must apprise myself of the facts there before deciding on a course of action.
Sully: Ha! And I suppose I'll stay here, right? Fluff the pillows? Bake some damn pies? Maybe knit a blanket so you can snuggle up in your own damn pigheadedness?! The hell with that! I'm coming.
Chrom: B-but Lucina is newly born! She needs her mother now.
Sully: She needs milk, Chrom. Not mothers. She can be wet-nursed like the rest of House Ylisse. Hell, you and Lissa turned out fine, didn't you?! Lucina is a strong child; she takes after her father. The Brand in her left eye proves it. And I'll not let you be the only one to set a strong example.
Chrom: Sully, please, will you just—
Sully: You can try to stop me, Chrom! Maybe even sneak away on your own... But you of all people know how I ride when I'm motivated... I'll catch you.
Lissa: Ha ha! Better just give in right now, Chrom! I mean, it's not like you ever win an argument with Sully anyw—
Chrom: LISSA! ...You're not helping. Just promise me if there's any danger you'll stay out of it, Sully. Please. Lissa and I had Emm of course, but we lost our parents when we were young. I want Lucina to grow up with her whole family around her.
Sully: Yes, her whole family. Just remember that means both of us...

Sumia: Chrom...
Chrom: I'd stay with you if I could, Sumia, but we owe Regna Ferox a great debt. I must apprise myself of the facts there before deciding on a course of action.
Sumia: I'm not asking you to stay here with me. I'm saying I'm coming with you.
Chrom: B-but Lucina is newly born! She needs her mother now.
Sumia: Can she not be wet-nursed as you and Lissa were? That is House Ylisse's tradition, is it not? Lucina is a strong child; she takes after her father. The Brand in her left eye is not your only gift to her.
Chrom: I'm worried about more than our child. ...I'm worried about you.
Sumia: That's sweet. But I'm still coming.
Chrom: *Sigh* ...I know better than to argue once your mind is made.
Lissa: Wow, Sumia really has you trained well! Whh-kssssh!
Chrom: Lissa—you're not helping. Just promise me you'll return at the first sign of danger, Sumia. Lissa and I had Emm of course, but we lost our parents when we were young. I want Lucina to grow up with her whole family around her.
Sumia: I'll be careful. I promise.

Maribelle: Chrom...
Chrom: I'd stay with you if I could, Maribelle, but we owe Regna Ferox a great debt. I must apprise myself of the facts there before deciding on a course of action.
Maribelle: Oh, I understand completely. So when do we leave?
Chrom: ...Leave? B-but Lucina is newly born! She needs her mother now.
Maribelle: Lissa told me the two of you were wet-nursed. I don't think a little common milk will spoil our daughter. Lucina is a strong child; she takes after her father. The Brand in her left eye proves it.
Chrom: It's not that, Maribelle! I'm just... I'd be worried about you.
Maribelle: Then keep me close and all will be well! I'm sure my sister agrees, yes?
Lissa: You bet! Maribelle is family now! She belongs with us!
Chrom: Will you at least promise to stay out of any possible danger? Lissa and I had Emm of course, but we lost our parents when we were young. I want Lucina to grow up with her whole family around her.
Maribelle: You have my word.

Olivia: What about me, my husband?
Chrom: I'd stay with you if I could, Olivia, but we owe Regna Ferox a great debt. I must apprise myself of the facts there before deciding on a course of action.
Olivia: Yes, I suppose so. But I... I was hoping I could go with you. I could dance for our hosts...
Chrom: Olivia, Lucina is still newly born. She needs her mother.
Olivia: Can't she be wet-nursed? You and Lissa turned out just fine without a mother by your side. And Lucina is strong, too! She has the Brand, just like you.
Chrom: Am I not allowed to keep you safe?
Olivia: How can you keep me safe if you leave me here?! *sniff*
Lissa: Aw, look at her! She's heartbroken.
Chrom: All right! All right. Gods... But you must promise to stay out of danger. Lissa and I had Emm of course, but we lost our parents when we were young. I want Lucina to grow up with her whole family around her.
Olivia: I know. I promise.
Lissa: I knew you wouldn't leave Olivia. Not after your whole whirlwind romance... Hee hee... Turn my back one minute and you're married. The next minute? A baby!
Chrom: A lot can happen in two years, Lissa. One day you'll understand.

Maiden: ...Chrom? My husband?
Chrom: I know. I'd stay with you if I could, but we owe Regna Ferox a great debt. I must apprise myself of the facts there before deciding on a course of action.
Maiden: Yes, I suppose you do.
Chrom: You stay here with Lucina. A newborn should be with her mother.
Maiden: But Chrom, I... *sigh* I suppose there is little wisdom in my going. I know nothing of battle. But I will watch over our daughter while you are away. Lucina is a strong child; she takes after her father. The Brand in her left eye was not your only gift to her. Still, you must promise you will stay safe. For her sake...
Lissa: Aww... You two are so sweet to each other. To think, just a couple years ago: strangers. Now: married with a child!
Chrom: A lot can happen in two years, Lissa. One day you'll understand.
^end

@Flashback 
^locked
Olivia: G-good day, milord.
Chrom: Oh, hello, Olivia. What a pleasant surprise.
Olivia: Oh! Is it strange? ...Or untoward? I don't mean to be so! I just thought, since you're always so nice to me, I should…
Chrom: I'm happy you're here. I've always like talking to you. Especially since you've become less... Well, terrified of me than before, heh heh…
Olivia: Heh ha, I know! It is so very strange. I've always been painfully shy around strangers, and even some acquaintances. Even a nod sends me running! But...not with you.
Chrom: Basilio deserves my thanks. Were it not for his introduction, we may never have met.
Olivia: I...I suppose not.
Chrom: You're smiling! ...Heh. It suits you.
Olivia: Really? I'm still so new at it. ...Smiling, I mean. ...At you. Until recently, the very thought of you had me weeping in despair!
Chrom: What? But why?
Olivia: No! Not in a bad way! It's just... Well, you're our leader, and such an important man, and we could never…
Chrom: ...Be together?
Olivia: But it's all right! I've made my peace with it. It's just... I've never felt this way about a man. It's strange. In a good way. ...I think.
Chrom: You're smiling again.
Olivia: So are you! And I never get to see THAT on the battlefield!
Chrom: I'm never this happy on a battlefield. And rarely this happy off it…
Olivia: Milord…
Chrom: Olivia, I'm going to say something, and you're likely going to think me mad. I know that we barely know each other, but I feel something...extraordinary for you.
Olivia: Y-you do?
Chrom: And not just when you dance! I feel it all the time. You're all I think about.
Olivia: Are you saying…
Chrom: I think I love you. And I know that's madness! I KNOW it! But you know what? It doesn't matter. My sister always followed her heart, so now I'm going to follow mine... Olivia, will you marry me?
Olivia: Holy gods! I mean... Yes... Yes, Chrom! Yes, oh yes! I will marry you!
Chrom: I can't promise it will be easy, but I can promise you my heart.
Olivia: Your heart is all I need.
Chrom: I...I can't believe you said yes. I was worried you might run screaming, heh heh. Oh! Wait! I nearly forgot. I have something for you... Here. Take it as a sign of my devotion.
Olivia: Your royal ring? But this must be so precious to you!
Chrom: I've found something more precious... My parents had this ring crafted to celebrate my birth. They wanted my to give it to the woman I would spend my life with. Take it, and know I will stand by you until the day I die.
Olivia: Chrom, this is... It's all too much.
Chrom: This is a love kindled quickly, but it burns bright in me. It is a love that will last. I believe it with all that I am.
Olivia: If this is madness, then lock me up and discard the key! I hope to never draw sane breath again!
Chrom: So be it! We'll be crazy in love, together.
^end

@Dialogue 
Frederick: I will ride ahead and assemble an escort, milord.
Chrom: Thank you, Frederick.
Robin: I'm quite impressed, Chrom. You make a fine ruler. You've come a long way from tending sheep!
Chrom: Ha! Have I truly changed so much?
Robin: Mmm... In a way, you haven't. But you've grown as a leader, and, of course, as a father.
Chrom: I've tried to do my best. My sister left a weighty legacy. I do all I can just to live up to it.

Chrom: I apologize I could not come sooner, Flavia.
Flavia: What matters is you are here, Chrom.
Chrom: Is it true Valmese warships have set sail? What can you tell us?
Flavia: Not much more than that, I'm afraid. The details remain hazy. Just a moment... Oaf! ...Where are you, you big, bald—Chrom is here!

Basilio: Ah! Well met, boy. I knew you'd come. We have someone you should hear from. I believe you've met? He claims to have insight into Valm's intentions. 
Virion: Good day, lords and ladies. How far you all? Allow me the great pleasure, and indeed honor, of introducing myself...
Chrom: We all know who you are, Virion. Although I don't believe we've met your companion?
Virion: Hmph! You know nothing! Prepare for my great unmasking! Long have I posed as archest of archers! Yet that was but a ruse! Yea, an artifice, to disguise myself as a mere above-average man. In truth, I am—
Cherche: *Ahem* May I present Duke Virion. I am his humble servant, Cherche. Greetings, sire. You honor us with your presence.
Virion: Cherche! You stole my moment!
Chrom: A pleasure, Cherche. Perhaps you could speak on your master's behalf?
Cherche: That may speed things along, yes...
Chrom: Then please. Time is of the essence.
Cherche: Very well, then. First, concerning our origins... We hail from Rosanne, a fertile territory on the continent of Valm. Milord is the head of House Virion, and the rightful ruler of Rosanne. A fact he often reminds us of—and loudly.
Virion: Ha! Is she not a true wit? She gets it all from me, you know.
Chrom: So what brings a noble and his charge all the way across the long sea?
Virion: The Valmese. Theirs was an unremarkable nation once. Tiny, almost pitifully so. Had our continent not shared its name, you might almost have forgotten it existed. And so Valm might have remained, if not for Walhart the Conqueror. One by one, he has taken the surrounding realms into his growing empire. I had no choice but to ru... Er, that is, to RECRUIT new allies to aid my people. That's why I've come.
Chrom: ...You fled for your life.
Cherche: More or less, yes. While milord hastily gathered his valuables and guided his people to safety... I alone remained to keep an eye on the Valmese crisis. I was there as Rosanne was swallowed up by Emperor Walhart's overwhelming forces. In the end, I, too, fled here to Regna Ferox seeking asylum.
Virion: To my great relief, I might add! Eligible women are one of Rosanne's most precious natural resources! It would be a shame to waste any, even one who cuts off her lord and ma—
Cherche: *Ahem!* As I was saying...
Virion: Yes, yes, all right, it was only a jape! Please, by all means, you may con—
Cherche: So, begging your pardons, but perhaps it is time to cut this long story short: Walhart has conquered our continent and now seeks to conquer yours.
Basilio: She claims the Valmese fleet will be at our shores in a matter of days. We'll know soon enough if her story proves true.
Cherche: I speak only what I know for true, good people. As does my lord. ...At least, with respect to this matter.
Virion: There's that wit of yours again! Aha! That wonderful...needling, chafing wit.
Chrom: I believe you both. Basilio, we must secure your ports as soon as possible.
Virion: You should know that Valm has the strongest cavalry in the world. You will want to station troops with experience fighting mounted troops.
Chrom: Why, Virion, are you volunteering?
/***EOF***/
Aversa: So, Captain, let me be certain I understand your report... Not only did you NOT confirm that the Ylissean party carries the Fire Emblem... But you can't be certain Prince Chrom is even among them? ...Is that the gist of it?
Soldier: Y-yes, milady! The air was thick with sand—even their number was difficult to ascertain.
Aversa: Perhaps if you had gotten closer, Captain. Here, let me show you...

Soldier: N-no! I'm sorry, I-- Huargh!

Aversa: Apology accepted.
Gangrel: Do try not to kill ALL the soldiers, my dear. We'll need a few for the welcoming party. The Ylisseans will be here soon—Chrom and the Emblem among them, I'm sure. That bleeding-heart prince would never put good sense before his sister!
Aversa: ...And when they arrive?
Gangrel: It will be a massacre worthy of their legendary father!

Spy: The exalt is the be executed at the castle on the morrow. I heard it from the king's own lips, sire.
Basilio: This is it, then.
Chrom: Exactly as you predicted, Robin.
Robin: So far, yes. But tomorrow will be the true test...
Flavia: Chin up, there! Show some confidence! It's your thinking that's got us this far. The plan is risky, but only as much is called for.
Chrom: We'll find a way to see it through, Robin. Don't worry. This time tomorrow, we'll be swapping stories with Emm on the road home.
Robin: I hope you're right.

Validar: Master Grima, Exalt Emmeryn is to the put to death on the morrow. Events will soon be back on course.
???: ......
Validar: Ha ha, yes, I should never have doubted the truth of your words. The yoke of destiny cannot be cast off! Even as they resist, they write your future with every step, O great one!
???: ......

Robin: ...AAAAAH!
Lissa: Robin? Hey, Robin! What's wrong? Was it a nightmare?
Robin: Is... that what it was? Y-yes, it must have been... I'm sorry, what brings you here, Lissa? Was there something you needed?
Lissa: Frederick says it's time to march. And we can't start the plan without our master tactician!

Gangrel: Good people! Warriors of Plegia! Welcome! Welcome, one and all! Your anticipation electrifies the air! We ALL remember the crimes of Ylisse... Would you have their witch-queen answer for them? Here? Today? NOW? YEEEEEEEEEEEES! Finally, we will have JUSTICE!  EXECUTIONER! If you would be so kind...
Robin: Flavia!
Flavia: I've got him!
Robin: EVERYONE: NOW!

Chrom: Take out all the soldiers first! We'll deal with the Mad King later!
Gangrel: Oh will you now? Bwa ha! We've been expecting you, Little Prince. Men: Kill him. Kill his sister. Kill his troops and his friends and anyone else you find! KILL THEM AAAAAAAAALL!

@Battle 
Tharja: So we're to kill or die here, simply because the king demands it? Pfft. What do I care of these Ylisseans? We're given no reasons to fight, only orders. What's the point? Besides, I've always been quite good at choosing who to hate on my own...

Libra: Exalt Emmeryn! No! Gods speed me to her side!

Campari: Where is the damn wyvern brigade?! Hurry! Close off their escape!

@Recruit-Talk 
%Chrom,Libra
Chrom: You there! Who are you? Why do you fight alone?
Libra: Good heavens! You're Prince Chrom, brother to Her Grace the Exalt!
Chrom: You know me?
Libra: Know you? Of course, sire! All Ylissean clergy do. I must thank the gods for uniting us! Oh, dearest and most heavenly fa-
Chrom: With all respect, now is not the time for prayer—it's action that's called for
Libra: Ah, too true! We hurried here to help as soon as word came of the execution.
Chrom: We? Then there are more of you?
Libra: Alas, there were. I lost many brave comrades along the way. In truth, I was starting to doubt the purpose of my struggle... But no longer! Pray, sire, let my axe serve you and your party!
Chrom: Your love for my sister is clear. I would be honored to be joined by such a formidable woman of the cloth.
Libra: ...Man, sire. Man of the cloth.
Chrom: You're a... ...You're not a woman?
Libra: No sire, Women are clerics. I am a priest. Well, technically a war monk, if you care to split hairs...
Chrom: Oh. Yes, well, I'm... I didn't mean to imply... Well, this is rather awkward.
Libra: Oh, it's all right, sire. You realized your mistake quickly enough. It could have been much more awkward. ...... MUCH more...
Chrom: Right! Let's stop there.

%Chrom,Tharja
Chrom: You there! Are you with the Plegians? You seem reluctant to fight.
Tharja: Death comes to all of us eventually. Why invite it early, fighting for a cause I don't believe in?
Chrom: So... I should take that as a no, or...
Tharja: Let's just say I'm keeping my options open. I mean, long live the king and all, but I'd like to keep living as well. And I have a bit of a rebellious streak, I'm afraid. A...dark side.
Chrom: Then perhaps you would rebel now and fight for our cause?
Tharja: ...You would trust me? What if this all just a ploy to plunge a dagger in your back?
Chrom: My sister, the exalt—I think she would trust you. And I'm trying to learn from her. Besides, I already need to watch my back, whether you're with us or not.
Tharja: Well, that's odd... Ususally when I bring up the backstabbing bit the dicussion is over. All right, then—consider me your new ally. ...For now.

@Character-Falls 
Libra: No... Oh gods... Please finish...what I have started... S-save her...

@Recruit-Battle 
Tharja: Nngh... Curses! Literally: curses...on you...till the end...

@Boss 
Campari: You'll never save your precious exalt, scum!

Campari: Urgh... Killing me will only... feed Plegia's rage...

@End 
Chrom: Robin! Their wyvern riders have fallen! The skies are clear! I'm giving the signal!

Phila: Your grace!
Emmeryn: Phila! I'm so glad to see you're safe! But how--
Phila: Khan Basilio's men freed me. Come, we must hurry!

Gangrel: What? Pegasus knights? How did they... That damned Ylissean tactician does NOT play fair!
Aversa: Heh heh heh... Yes, well. Neither do I. 

Robin: ...Risen?! Oh gods, no! Chrom! There are Risen everywhere!
Chrom: Damn! Not now!
Gangrel: Bwa ha ha! Oh, did an army of living corpses just APPEAR out of the blue?! Truly, the heavens smile upon mighty King Gangrel this day! Bwa ha ha ha!

Phila: Risen... How... Y-your Grace, I... Forgive me... Uhh...
Emmeryn: Phila!
Gangrel: Exeunt one pegasus knight! Bwa ha ha! Watch how they fall, one by one!

Robin: No no no...
Chrom: We've lost...
Gangrel: I believe this is what they call a reversal of fortunes. Now... grovel before me. Plead! Beg for your worthless lives!
Chrom: I'd give up my life before I beg for it from you.
Gangrel: Oh, now THAT is a good line. A fitting epitaph for your tombstone, perhaps? But it's not just your life in the balance. The exalt still stands upon the block. And I have a dozen bows trained on her. All it would take is one word from me...
Chrom: Emm! Hold on, I'm--
Gangrel: ARCHERS! If this Ylissean pup so much as twitches, let fly your arrows!
Chrom: I... I'll kill you!
Gangrel: Go ahead! I welcome it. Just know you were responsible for Big Sister's bloody demise! ...And what of the rest of you? Eh? Who wants the honor of killing the exalt? ...No one? Bah! Your merry band isn't quite so headstrong anymore, is it? Pathetic!
Chrom: Damn you!
Gangrel: Now, now, my boy—no one needs to die today. Not you. Not the exalt. Not your friends. Just lay down your sword and give me the Fire Emblem.
Chrom: ...I...
Robin: Chrom! You can't trust him! 
Chrom: Of COURSE I can't trust him! I'm not an idiot! But if I say no, he'll kill her! The gods are cruel, damn them! My sister or my duty... A problem with no right answer, yet I must choose!

^start 
Robin: I know it's hard to admit, Chrom, but it's the only choice. Compared to the lives of thousands, one person, any one person, is--
Chrom: DON'T! Just... don't say it.
Gangrel: What's this? You'll let your sister and ruler die, all to save some old family trinket? Oh, so delicious! I can't WAIT to hear what your people have to say about it! "THE EXALT IS DEAD! LONG LIVE HER MURDERER!" Your halidom will collapse before you could even begin your rule...
Chrom: We'll see, when the time comes. But first, I'll see you dead.

Robin: That's right. Don't give up! There has to be a way...
Chrom: If there is, I can't see it... Ah, gods!
Gangrel: I will count to three! Throw down your weapons, or your exalt becomes the world's largest quiver. One! Two! Thr--
Chrom: Gangrel, hold! ...You win. Everyone, lay down yo--
^end

Emmeryn: No wait!
Gangrel: SILENCE!
Chrom: Emm...
Emmeryn: King Gangrel, is there no hope you will listen to reason? 
Gangrel: You mean listen to more of your sanctimonious babble?! I think not. No, all I want is to hear a THUNK of arrows, and a SPLAT as you hit the ground. Take one, long, last look from your perch. You do so enjoy looking down on people... Then prepare to meet the ground, and your maker! That is, unless if someone were to give me the Emblem... NOW!
Emmeryn: ......
Chrom: ALL RIGHT! All right... Emm, I know you won't approve, but this is my final decision. MAYBE someday we'll face a crisis where MAYBE the Emblem would've helped. But I know for a fact that Ylisse needs you, today! The people need their exalt... And we need our sister. If those dark days should come, we'll face them together. 
Emmeryn: Chrom... Th-Thank you. I know now what I must do...
Chrom: Emm, what are you--
Emmeryn: Plegians! I ask that you hear the truth of my words! War will win you nothing but sadness and pain, both inside your borders and out. Free yourselves from this hatred! From this cycle of pain and vengeance. Do what you must... As I will do. See now that one selfless act has the power to change the world!
Chrom: Emm, no! No!

@Cutscene 
Emmeryn: No reaction... Was I wrong then?

Emmeryn: Chrom... This is some torch I'm passing you.

Emmeryn: Hmph... So be it.

Emmeryn: Chrom...

Emmeryn: ...Lissa...

Emmeryn: ...And all my people.

Emmeryn: Know...

Emmeryn: ...that I loved you.

Chrom: Emm...

@End 
Robin: Oh gods...
Chrom: DAMN YOU, GANGREL!
Lissa: NOOOOOO!
Gangrel: Bwa ha ha haa! Well now! ...How disgustingly noble. And so lovely a fall! Here I thought death to be an ugly thing. I've never seen one fall so gracefully, in fact. ...And I've seen many fall! Ah... So ends Emmeryn, Ylisse's most exalted! But how can we ensure everyone remembers this beautiful moment of her sacrifice? Perhaps we should gather up her body and put it on display! Bwa ha ha...
Chrom: Gangrel! You die today!

Basilio: No, boy! I secured an escape route! We have to flee!
Chrom: B-But...her body... I have to...
Basilio: You have to RUN! Now do it! Robin! Don't let him do anything stupid!
Marth: No! No... I'm too late... Our bleak future is written once more... And darkness awaits us all. 
/***EOF***/
@Intro 
Raimi: Prince Chrom, please wait here while I summon the khan.
Chrom: Of course.
Robin: The khan is away?
Chrom: Out training, I'd wager. The khans of Ferox prefer battle to politics. Or rather, battle IS their politics.
Robin: A warrior ruler, eh? I can picture him now… A giant of a man of unparalleled thew, his broad chest covered in hair, heheh…
Flavia: Am I now? ...Please, do go on!
Robin: Huh? 
Chrom: You're the—?! Er, that is to say... The khan, I presume?
Flavia: One of them, yes—the East-Khan. My name is Flavia. I apologize for the troubles at the border, Prince Chrom. You are welcome in Regna Ferox.
Chrom: Thank you, but I'm confident we can put that misunderstanding behind us. Is it true bandits posing as Ylisseans have been ransacking your border villages?
Flavia: Yes. Those Plegian dogs! We found documents proving as much on the corpse of one of their captains. Plegia must see some benefit in raising tensions between your kingdom and ours.
Chrom: Damn them! I... Forgive me, Your Grace. That was...indelicately put.
Flavia: Ha! Damn them and damn delicacy! Here in Ferox, we appreciate plain speech.
Chrom: In that case, you should have a word with your damn border guards…
Flavia: ...Ha ha! Now that's Feroxi diplomacy! Yes, I like you already. I know why you have come, Prince. But regrettably, I cannot provide any Feroxi troops for Ylisse.
Lissa: What?! Why not?!
Flavia: I lack the authority.
Chrom: Forgive me, but I don't understand. Aren't you the khan?
Flavia: As I said, I am ONE of the khans. In Ferox, the khans of east and west hold a tournament every few years. The victor acquires total sovereignty over both kingdoms. And that means they have the final say when it comes to forging alliances. The West-Khan won the last tournament, you see, and so…
Chrom: So we are to receive no aid at all?
Flavia: Not if you always give up so easily! The next tournament is nigh, you see, and I am in need of champions.
Chrom: What does that have to do with us?
Flavia: The captain of my border guard informs me your Shepherds are quite capable. Perhaps you would consider representing the East in the upcoming tournament? If you win and I become ruling khan, I will grant your alliance.
Chrom: I would have assumed Ylisseans had no place in such Feroxi traditions.
Flavia: Ha! On the contrary. The khans themselves do not fight—they choose champions to represent them. Otherwise our land would be rife with blood feuds and dead khans! We don't involve comrades or kin for the same reason. Over time, it was decided the tournament should be fought by outsiders. Although the outsiders have never included foreign royalty. ...That I know of! Ha! Regardless, it is your choice to make.
Chrom: There is no choice, East-Khan. My people are desperate. We face not only Plegia's constant attacks, but now the added threat of the Risen. If fighting for you is the quickest way to an alliance, then we will take up our steel.
Flavia: Ha ha! Oh, I like you, Prince Chrom. I do hope you survive the tournament! Come, I'll show you the arena where the tournament is held. But be wary! I hear an equally able swordsman champions the West-Khan.
Chrom: He shall be defeated by Ylisse’s necessity.
Flavia: Well spoken again—I look forward to seeing if you're equally skilled with a blade!

@Battle 
Lissa: Chrom! Look!
Chrom: I see him…
Marth: ......
Chrom: Marth! One question, before we begin?
Marth: ......
Chrom: ...Fine, then. Our swords can speak for us!

@Cutscene 
Chrom: Where did you get that? There's no way...

Chrom: Tell me—Who taught you to fight like that?
Marth: My father!

@Recruit-Battle
Marth: Let us fight with honor. May the best soldier win!

Marth: Impressive...if not surprising...

%Chrom,Marth
Chrom: Who is your father?
Marth: I've said enough for one day, sir.
Chrom: Hmph. Is that how it is? Lissa owes you her life, and for that you have my gratitude. But within these walls, I represent the East-Khan and the interests of Ylisse. I can't promise to stay my blade, but I vow not to shame you.
Marth: Heh, never expected such youthful arrogance... We shall see who shames who!

@End 
Flavia: Well fought! You have my respect. And, perhaps more to the point, you have your alliance. I will provide Ylisse with the soldiers she needs.
Chrom: Truly? Thank you, East-Khan.
Flavia: I should thank you! It feels like ages since I've held full power. Come, my new friends! Tonight, we celebrate! 
Basilio: Bah! Any excuse for a party and Flavia jumps on it…
Chrom: I'm sorry, have we met?
Basilio: I'm the West-Khan you so rudely removed from power! You're handy with a sword, boy. I thought for sure I'd picked the stronger man.
Chrom: What do you know about him?
Basilio: You mean that "Marth"? Bah! He's just some sellsword with delusions of grandeur. All I know is that he turned up one eve and knocked my old champion flat. It was love at first sight, and I'm generally too old for such things! Baha! Anyway, he's gone now. Up and fled the moment the tournament ended.
Lissa: He's so dark and mysterious... *siiigh*
Robin: Sounds like Marth's got at least one fan…
Lissa: Well, I mean, c'mon... He IS sort of dreamy, isn't he?
Chrom: And YOU'RE sort of dreaming!
Lissa: Yowch! Lighten up, Big Brother. I was just kidding.
Frederick: Milord? Milady? If this fascinating discussion is over, we'd best return home. The exalt will want this news of our new alliance immediately.
Chrom: Right as always Frederick.
Basilio: Hold, boy. Before you go, I have a little present for you. 
Lon'qu: ......
Basilio: This is Lon'qu, my former champion. Not much for talking, mind you, but he's peerless with a sword. As good as Marth, in my mind. To be honest, I can't figure out how Marth bested him so quickly.
Lissa: Marth beat him? But he looks so big and strong… 
Lon'qu: Away, woman!
Lissa: Hey! Wh-what did I say?!
Basilio: Ba ha ha! Let's just say that ladies tend to put Lon'qu on edge. Nonetheless, he is capable. Perhaps he even has the makings of a khan. Consider him West Ferox's contribution to the Ylissean cause.
Chrom: You're certain about this?
Basilio: Yes, yes. He's your man now.
Chrom: And Lon'qu? You have no objections?
Lon'qu: He gives orders. I stab people. I think our roles are clear.
Chrom: ...All right then. Welcome aboard.

@Dialogue 
Emmeryn: ...Then Regna Ferox will support Ylisse? Thank you, Chrom. I knew sending you was the right choice.
Chrom: You should see Ferox's warriors! Perhaps now our people will be safe from--

Phila: Your Grace! M-milord! Forgive me, but I bring alarming news! 
Emmeryn: Phila! Slow down, please! What's happened?
Phila: Plegian soldiers have been sighted inside our southwest border! They attacked a village in Themis and abducted the Duke's daughter. 
Lissa: B-but that would be...Maribelle! Chrom, we have to do something!
Phila: There's more: King Gangrel of Plegia claims Lady Maribelle invaded HIS country. He demands we repay reparations for this "insult."
Chrom: And we're to believe a dastard like the Mad King of Plegia? 
Emmeryn: Peace, Chrom. We must keep our wits about us. 
Chrom: We should put a sword in his gut and be done with it! The Mad King has been trying to provoke war with Ylisse at every step! He won't stop until he drags this whole continent to hell with him!
Phila: I agree with the prince, Your Grace. We must demonstrate to Plegia that such actions have consequences. 
Emmeryn: I understand your feelings, Chrom. Truly I do. But if we give him the war he wants, then we lose, no matter what the outcome. Our last conflict nearly ruined the halidom. It left Ylisseans homeless and starving. We cannot repeat that mistake. I will offer parley with King Gangrel. 
Lissa: Emm, no! You can't! 
Phila: Please reconsider, Your Grace. He cannot be trusted to act in good faith! 
Emmeryn: So we either choose to march to war or leave Lady Maribelle to die? No. I will not accept that. 
Phila: ...Forgive me, Your Grace. I spoke out of turn. I know you will stand always by your own principles. Pray, allow the pegasus knights to accompany you, though. 
Chrom: I'm going, too. ...Someone has to save you from your good intentions. 
Lissa: And I want to be there for you AND Maribelle! 
Emmeryn: As you wish. Thank you all. Your strength will be mine. 

Chrom: Well then! Is everyone ready to go? It's a long march through the western mountains to the Plegian border. 

Ricken: Captain! I'm all packed! When do we leave?!
Chrom: Ricken? How did you... Go back inside. You're not old enough for this mission. 
Ricken: But, Captain! You know my skill with magic! You know I can handle myself! 
Chrom: I'd feel safer with your magic here, protecting the garrison. All right? We're off, then. Be good. 

Ricken: "Be good"? Gods, how old does he think I am? ...Well, I'll show him just how good I can be! 
/***EOF***/
@Intro 
Basilio: Hurry! There should be carriages waiting just through the ravine!
Chrom: ......
Robin: Chrom, please!
Chrom: Rrgh... I'm... I'm coming.
Basilio: Quickly! We're almost... Huh? Damn!  Plegians! I knew it couldn't be that easy... They're right in our way! We must fight!

Mustafa: Ylisseans! I offer you mercy! Surrender to me now and live!
Basilio: Surrender? Sorry, I'm not familiar with the word.
Mustafa: Emmeryn would not have wished for this to come to bloodshed.
Chrom: Don't speak her name!
Mustafa: Your rage is justified, Prince Chrom. But the meaning of your sister's final sacrifice was not lost on me. I suspect many Plegians who heard her final words would say the same. If you lay down your weapons, I vow to protect you as best I can.
Frederick: How can we trust you after what your barbarous king has done? I think we shall take our chances with weapons in hand!
Mustafa: I suspected you would say as much. So be it, Prince Chrom. I shall endeavor to grant you a swift and dignified end.

@Battle 
Mustafa: What are those--thieves I see scattered about? So, they found our battlefield... They comb it for trinkets and spoils, then scurry away like mice. Pah! We shall bring them to justice later. First, the Ylisseans!

Soldier: Forgive me sir, but I...I no longer see the justice in hunting these people down. I accept any punishment you see fit, but after all that's happened...I just can't.
Wyvern Rider: How dare you question the general's orders! You know full well the punishment of insubordination is death!
Soldier: B-but, sir! These people are--
Mustafa: These questions are not ours to ponder, lad. The soldier does not judge. The soldier delivers judgment.
Soldier: Sir, I... I cannot raise my lance against them. Even if... Even if it means death.
Mustafa: ...You were there when Emmeryn spoke, weren't you? So be it! Those of you unwilling to fight are dismissed!
Soldier: But I don't wish to abandon you, sir!
Mustafa: I cannot defy the king, lad. I know him well. He would murder my wife and child to set an example. I will accept the blame for your actions today. Now go!
Soldier: W-wait, General! I see a cause worth fighting for, one I believe in: loyalty to my general.
Mustafa: ...Aye. That's a good lad.

Mustafa: Call in the reinforcements! Draw them close, then strike!

@Boss 
Mustafa: I am General Mustafa of Plegia. If you wish to keep your lives, then you must win them!

Mustafa: Well done, Ylisseans... Hrrggh! Please...spare my men...

@End 
Olivia: Khan Basilio!
Basilio: Olivia! I'm sorry we kept you waiting.
Olivia: When I didn't hear from you, I thought... I assumed the worst.
Basilio: Chrom? Robin? Meet Olivia. She'll be smuggling us out of here.
Olivia: Only if you hurry! Doubtless more of the Mad King's men are on their way.
Basilio: Right. Pile in, you lot! And bid farewell to this Plegian hellhole.
Olivia: Ready? Hold on tight!

Robin: All that... For nothing...
Lissa: *Sob* *sniff* Emm... Oh, Emm...
Frederick: I should have died before allowing the exalt to be captured. I have failed as a knight...
Flavia: So what now, oaf?
Basilio: Don't look to me—I'm not in charge!
Flavia: Ugh... I picked a fine time to regain the full throne...
Robin: Chrom, I'm... I'm so sorry. My plan just wasn't enough.
Chrom: You did your best, Robin. ...You have my thanks. It's my own failures that haunt me now. Gods, I was just so powerless!
Robin: It's not your fault either, Chrom.
Chrom: ...She did it for me, Robin. So that I wouldn't have to live with the guilt of either choice, she chose for me. She sacrificed herself rather than give up what could one day save her people...
Robin: Chrom... Listen to me. Look at me.
Chrom: ......
Robin: I was powerless once, too, remember? And yes, alone, I don't think either one of us is half the person your sister was. But together...maybe we can be something more. If you fall, I'll be there to pull you back up. When you fight for your sister's ideals, I'll be by your side. You don't have to become your sister, you know. You can still be true to yourself. You just have to give people hope in whatever way you can.
Chrom: And what if I can't? What if I'm not worthy of her ideals? Robin, what if I drag you down with me?
Robin: If you aren't worthy, you'll keep at it until you are. And if we both fall down, well, that's what friends are for, isn't it?
Nowi: That's right. I wouldn't be even here if not for you.
Tharja: You gave me your trust and now you have mine. ...For the time being.
Lon'qu: Were you unworthy, I would have left long ago.
Virion: It took great courage and charisma to unite all of us. ...I knew I possessed such talents, but clearly you do as well!
Ricken: Yeah. We all look up to you! You're like a hero to us.
Chrom: Thank you, everyone. Your words mean more than you could know. My Shepherds... My warriors... There is work to be done. Gangrel must be stopped so that peace can once again reign in Ylisse. Will you help me?
Lissa: You can count me in! I'm tired of crying all the time! It's time to start punchin' stuff!
Maribelle: Hear, hear, darling! Our people have suffered enough.
Stahl: Gladly would I fight and die for House Ylisse!
Sully: Gladly would I fight and KILL those dastards for House Ylisse!
Libra: Our hearts echo yours, sire.
Sumia: I will be the the unbreakable shield by your side!
Kellam: I'm with you, too! You know. Just in case anyone...Hello?
Vaike: Teach is here and class is in session!
Gregor: How much you pay Gregor? Hee hee haw! Gregor make joke! ...Why you look at Gregor like that?
Panne: Your sister earned my respect. The last taguel shall champion her.
Frederick: You have grown strong, milord. I may have set a poor example as a knight... but I swear to you, I shall die before any more exalted blood is spilled!
Chrom: ...Thank you all. Truly. You honor me with your fealty. I will not falter again. We shall answer this outrage! The Mad King must be stopped!
Flavia: Right! It's time for ol' Gangrel to get a dose of his own vulnerary! The whole of the Feroxi army is yours to send crashing against him!
Basilio: Har! You young folk—your passions run so hot! If I had any gray hairs, you would've singed 'em right off. In other words, count me in!
Olivia: I'd like to go too, if I may. The exalt did me a kindness once.
Chrom: She did?
Olivia: Y-yes, sire. It would honor me to have a part in giving her justice! Although all I can do is dance... And I'm not so skilled at that, if we're being honest...
Basilio: Har har! She's too modest! Olivia is a Feroxi treasure. You won't meet a finer dancer in all the realms! Her moves inspire soldiers to work twice as hard! You'll do well to bring her along, Commander.
Chrom: "Commander"? What happened to "boy"?
Basilio: You've earned your way up from that name, I think. Now, where were we? Oh yes! I was just about to start cracking skulls! Flavia will lead me and the other Feroxi in a head-on assault. That should buy you enough time to take down Gangrel. Hear that, boy! You get the fun part!
Chrom: I thought you weren't going to call me--
Basilio: You and Robin have my every confidence. You're a born leader, and he/she has a knack of guiding troops to victory. You both have some growing to do yet, but I can already see you'll grow tall.
Chrom: Thanks, Basilio.
Basilio: All right, enough talk. It's time to raise some hell!
Chrom: Right.
Basilio: Let's get to it, then! Gangrel may try to hit us while we're still licking our wounds.
Chrom: Let him try. This time, I'm ready to dethrone the Mad King, once and for all.
/***EOF***/
