@Opening
Verdane has fallen to Grannvale. On orders from Belhalla, Sigurd governs the region from Evans Castle, with his newly-wed wife Deirdre ever at his side. 

However, Grannvale's actions in Verdane are ill received by neighboring Agustria. The lords of Agustria lead a storm of heated rhetoric denouncing Grannvale. 

To make matters worse, the renowned pacifistic Agustrian ruler, King Imca, has been slain by an unknown hand. Imca's successor to the Agustrian crown is his firstborn son, Prince Chagall. Even as the Agustrian crisis unfolds, the bulk of Grannvale's army remains in Isaach. 

And so, Chagall has given the lords his first command as their new king: invade Verdane. As the sole defender of Grannvale’s front, Sigurd once again finds himself in battle...

@Intro 
Eldigan: Lachesis, I'm leaving for Agusty. I can't rest until I've convinced King Chagall to end his foolish warmongering.
Lachesis: Please don't do it, brother! You know as well as I that Chagall murdered his father himself. You'll only be endangering yourself for a lost cause. He won't listen to you!
Eldigan: You mustn't say such things about your king! I, too, have heard the rumors of King Chagall's involvement, but they are just that: rumors. There remains no evidence against him. Surely, His Majesty will see reason in this matter, if I simply persuade him.
Lachesis: But-
Eldigan: Enough! I'll leave three of my finest knights here to defend Nordion, should the worst come to pass. Lachesis, you needn't look so sad. I will be back. I promise. I'm not about to abandon you in death.
Lachesis: Eldie...

Eldigan: Please, Your Majesty! Reconsider your militant ambitions. Your father before you worked so hard to build an era of peace with Grannvale. A war will only bring ruin to our people, bringing disgrace upon your good name for generations to come. I implore you: do not start a war!
Chagall: So it's you... Eldigan of Nordion. You dastard... My father adored you, and you used his trust to undercut me at every turn. But now, my father is no more... And long live the king of all Agustria! For years you've made me play the fool, and now, I will reward you in kind. Guards! Throw this man in the dungeon!
Eldigan: W-wait! Your Majesty, please-
Chagall: Pfeh! Good riddance, the eyesore. Send my orders to Bordeaux at Heirhein: seize Nordion Castle! Once that nuisance is dealt with, we're clear to throw all we've got at Grannvale!
Manfroy: Your Majesty, King Chagall... I see you've made your decision at last.
Chagall: Manfroy? Yes, just as we agreed. Father is dead, and by my hand. ...There is no turning back now. Even so, I still don't know if we stand a chance.
Manfroy: Remember, Grannvale still adheres to that tawdry old peace treaty with you, and their entire army is distracted in Isaach. Strike now, and you could not possibly fail.
Chagall: You're right. The downfall of Grannvale will mark the rise of Agustria as Jugdral's new leading power! "Chagall, Emperor of the World"... I like the sound of that.
Manfroy: Hmhmhm... We can only hope your ambition will be rewarded.

Yves: Milady! We've received word that Lord Eldigan was arrested in Agusty!
Lachesis: What?! You must be joking! Oh... Why didn't I try harder... I shouldn't have let him go...
Yves: That isn't our only problem, milady. With Lord Eldigan gone, we need to be aware of Heirhein's movements. Knowing of his lordships absence, a strike from them is inevitable. After the Verdane incident, they're most likely out for revenge on us... Especially Lord Elliot.
Lachesis: Ugh, that Elliot... I can't believe how many times I've had to tell him I'm not interested in him. Smug, self-absorbed swine like him are the absolute worst! If only more men were cut from the same cloth as Eldie... It's too bad they aren't, else perhaps someone would stand a chance to marry me. Perhaps.
Yves: Er... Be that as it may, Lord Eldigan's Cross Knights are still dispatched to the north at Fort Silvail, well away from here. We three are all who remain. Nordion is vulnerable, and they know it. Rest assured, my brothers and I will do all we can to defend the castle, but the odds are against us. I'm sorry, milady.
Lachesis: Very well. Thank you, Yves. But please, look after yourselves. Don't waste your lives for me. Be sure to tell Eva and Alva that I'm sorry for this.
Yves: We are not worthy of such kind words, milady. Even so, Lord Eldigan handpicked us to defend you. Our lord gave us a task, and we will see it through. As paladins of Nordion, our lives are yours, no matter what. To our dying breaths, we live to defend you!

Bordeaux: Let me get this straight. Eldigan ticked off the king and got himself a little prison time for his troubles? Ahahaha, that's perfect! Elliot! Lay siege to Nordion at once! Let's see some tears roll down Eldigan's Cheeks!
Elliot: With pleasure, Father!

Oifey: Sire, we have trouble! It appears that Lord Eldigan has been taken prisoner and Nordion is under attack. I bear a message from Lady Lachesis, pleading for aid.
Sigurd: They've taken Eldigan?! Why... Why in the world would they treat a man so esteemed this way? Inform everybody to make ready. We ride for Nordion at once! No matter the cost, Lachesis needs us. He might never admit it, but Lachesis has always been dear to Eldigan. The loss of Lachesis would gravely wound him...
Deirdre: Milord... You're preparing for another battle, aren't you?
Sigurd: I'm sorry, Deirdre. I owe so much to Eldigan. I could never abandon his sister in a time like this.
Deirdre: I thought as much. I'm not about to stop you. No... I will accompany you.
Sigurd: What?! No, I can't allow that! I refuse to endanger you like this.
Deirdre: Milord, do you not remember our vows? You swore to never leave my side, and... I... I am... uneasy... I have a feeling that if you and I were to part, we would never find each other again... Please, grant me this. Let me stay by your side...
Sigurd: I'm sorry... you're right. I did promise. Very well! Let us ride together. But you mustn't leave my side.
Deirdre: I won't.

@Recruit-Battle 
Holyn: Hah... Heh... Nobody here's ever bested me before. Who in the world are you, anyway? The way you fought... You were brimming with spirit! Hm... I'd wager there's something you're here to fight for, right? All I've done is chase the money for all these years... But I look at you, and suddenly it all feels so meaningless. Hey, I don't suppose you're recruiting? Maybe using my blade for something real and grander than me is just what I need.

@Battle 
Knight: Sigh... Who in their right mind would want to be sent to this blasted outlook? To think that even at a time like this, I, the pride of the Agustrian ballisticians, am... Hm? Is somebody there?
Knight: Must've been the wind...

Beowulf: Hey, you! Wanna hire my blade? 10,000 gold. Take it or leave it. ...Right, deal. You ain't gonna be disappointed.

Arden: ...Sigh. I don't get it. No matter how hard I train or how strong I get, I'm still the butt of every joke 'round here. Maybe if I were more like Alec, with how he can attack twice... That'd be all I need to get a bit of respect, methinks... and maybe a cute lass while I'm at it... Hee hee. But I'm still just me... Back to the ol' grind, I suppose... Hang on? What's this little ring thing? Ooh, maybe it's one of those magical ones I keep hearing about. That'd be grand, wouldn't it? Let's try her on... Hm... Hwooooarh! W-what's this power I'm feeling?! IS this what Alec feels like all the time?

Elliot: Lady Lachesis of Nordion, huh... I've been looking forward to this. She's been playing cruel games with my heart for years... But look how the tables have turned! I've an entire army behind me, against her insignificant guard. What could she possibly do? She's powerless to resist coming back to Heirhein with me! And who knows... Perhaps one day she'll admit she wants it.
Philip: Our task is to form a defensive line. Don't let the enemy lure you from your post. Stand your ground! Understood?

Macbeth: So, Heirhein's finally made their move... Perfect. Release the brigands on the villages, as we arranged! Under the old king, you couldn't even dare to meddle in any of his property... Yet it is the easiest thing to cheat Chagall! Strip everything of worth you find and bring it back here. Leave no stone unturned!

Clement: Heirhein is going for Nordion's throat? Hm... who do I side with here? Let's wait and see how this unfolds. Instruct the men to remain where they are until the dust settles.

Oifey: Heirhein is secure, sire. What are you thinking for our next move? Do we pull out?
Sigurd: Hm. The imminent danger has passed. Nordion should be safe, but Eldigan is still being held in the capital. Furthermore...
Oifey: Yes?
Sigurd: I'm hearing that the frontier towns in the central forests are grappling with bandit raids. We can't afford to leave them be.
Oifey: Agreed. It is crucial that we help the locals, that we might convince them we aren't their enemy. In that case, we must ride for the north at once. There's no time to waste. Let's go!

Chagall: You imbecile! You turned your back on this crisis to line your own pockets, and now we've lost Heirhein! There had better be a good explanation for your behavior, Macbeth!
Macbeth: Er, um... My humblest apologies, Your Majesty! Forgive me, I beg of you! I've already sent out the order for Waltz's sellsword unit to move in at once.

Waltz: Hrmph. There's the order to move in. Guess we don't 'ave much of a choice now. Bet he's gonna send us in, then 'ave his men turn tail right when we need 'em. I'm stayin' put till I see how this all plays out. Oi, Beowulf, how 'bout you?
Beowulf: Yeah, I ain't up for this at all, Waltz. That Macbeth swine really rubs me the wrong way. I'm this close to just walking off the job.
Waltz: You're a free man, Beowulf. If a job isn't right for you, you're free to quit it. That's the funny thing about mercenaries, innit? Today's pals are tomorrow's foes.
Beowulf: Amen to that. Hopefully we're not gonna end up enemies someday. Wouldn't have a hope in hell against you, would I?
Waltz: Heh... Ain't met anybody in the whole world who can take me!

Lewyn: What's going on, sir? What's that din outside?
Man: Well, well! The bard's still here, are you? You oughta get outta here. We've got bandits headed our way.
Lewyn: Bandits? Isn't the Agustrian army doing something about them?
Man: The army? Hah! That's rich, boy! The army's too busy with their little civil war to deal with our problems. Clearly that's more important than our safety. Actually, that's not all... Rumor is, the Lord of Anphony himself is pullin' the bandits' strings here.
Lewyn: Oh, you've gotta be kidding. That's it. That guy's gotta go. I'll go sort out the bandits, okay? Now, how big a reward'll be waiting here for me when I get back?
Man: Still full of hot air, are you? Just get outta here, wise guy. Nobody here's got the time to listen to you blowing your own horn.
Lewyn: Oh, come on! A little confidence would be nice! Eh, whatever...
Silvia: Oi! Lewyn! Runnin' off behind my back now, are ya?
Lewyn: Silvia?! Damn! Er... I mean... you found me!
Silvia: Yeah, I found ya! You've had your fun with me, so you're just dumpin' me without so much as a goodbye?
Lewyn: Hey, careful with that tongue of yours! We barely just met here a week ago! We've only been out for dinner for... What, two or three times? You're a dancer. I'm a bard... There's not much else to it.
Silvia: But... But you called me adorable! That... That really meant a lot to me...
Lewyn: Er... Sometimes I just say things and don't really mean them... Oh, come on! Enough with the tears! Things'll probably get more than a bit rough out there, though. Think you'll be okay?
Silvia: Yeah! I like it rough!
Lewyn: Geez... She was crying her eyes out just a few seconds ago. It's like she never really grew up...
Silvia: Huh?
Lewyn: Er, nothing! Let's get going.

Erinys: Oh, that must be Agusty Castle! I'd say we're due for a break. Hopefully we'll be able to find a lead on Prince Lewyn's whereabouts in town.

Waltz: Right, it's show time! Boys, you know the drill. Surrender ain't an option. Let's show 'em how real men fight!

Oifey: Sire, we have a visitor. Lord Filat of Belhalla seeks an audience.
Sigurd: Lord Filat, I presume? Thank you for coming.
Filat: Lord Sigurd, the Agustrian conflict has escalated into full-scale war, I see. How does this battle look at the moment?
Sigurd: We're faring well so far, somehow, but this hasn't been easy by any means.
Filat: Incidentally, Lord Sigurd, I regret to say that I come bearing bad news...
Sigurd: What's happened?
Filat: Nasty rumors have emerged of late in the royal court... and they concern you. The rumors claim that, in concert with Quan of Leonster and Eldigan of Nordion, you are conspiring against the crown. This, it is said, is why you are harboring the prince of Isaach in your ranks.
Sigurd: What?! That's absurd! Who in the world could've started such nonsense...
Filat: Chancellor Reptor and Duke Langobalt.
Sigurd: I see... I should have known, knowing their disdain for my father. Yet, to take that grudge so far...
Filat: Those two are ruled by their envy of your father's immense power as Prince Kurth's advisor, I'd say. They likely believe a Chalphy-controlled prince will strip them of their influence once he takes the throne. Fear and jealousy dominate their lives... Don't let your guard down against them.
Sigurd: Thank you, sir. I appreciate the warning. By the way, sir... Pray tell, how goes the Isaachian campaign? Is there an end in sight?
Filat: It seems there is indeed, from what we've heard. We expect the triumphant return of the prince and your father any day now.
Sigurd: Thank the gods Prince Kurth is safe. Losing him to this war would have dealt such a blow to Grannvale's future... I know my father worries so about how the Belhalla lineage would end with His Majesty's death, unmarried as he is.
Filat: Indeed. Before the war started, we were trying to hasten him to search for a wife.
Sigurd: If I may, is there a problem?
Filat: Indeed... The story behind this has been well known in the royal court for a long time now. Regrettable, His Highness struggles to move on from a long-lost love.
Sigurd: Really? Why did he never marry this person?
Filat: Well... Perhaps I ought to tell you the complete tale. This happened some twenty years ago. Prince Kurth had an affair with the duchess of Velthomer, a truly lovely woman as I recall. Duke Victor of Velthomer was... Well, he was a philanderer of the worst degree, and had countless lovers. The prince, of course, is nothing like him. He wished only to support the duchess at first, but the two soon fell deeply in love. Victor was distraught, needless to say. He penned a letter denouncing the pair, then he took his own life. The duchess could bear to stay no longer. She fled Grannvale and was never seen again. As I recall, her name was Sigyn.
Sigurd: ...Wow. That's horrible... So she was the mother of Lord Arvis...
Filat: Indeed. I can scarcely imagine what this was like for him... Losing both parents at only the age of seven...
Sigurd: Mm. And yet, I feel so sorry for the prince. Not to mention, for Sigyn as well...
Filat: Oh! My apologies. I'm sure a soldier of your caliber has better things to worry about than court gossip. Please, don't worry about the story. You have a war with Agustria to win, after all! Farewell, Lord Sigurd. We look forward to the day that you, too, return to the fatherland in triumph.

Clement: You can't be serious! They've come as far as Anphony?! Are they just going to keep going until all Agustria is theirs? They'll have to come this way. We've no choice but to fight. Deploy the ballistae. We're all that stands between the capital and Grannvale's dogs of war!

Erinys: King Chagall, with all due respect, may we begin already? I need to find Prince Lewyn as quickly as possible. You said you know his location. That's the only reason I'm here.
Chagall: Apologies for the delay, knight, but I just received word of a lead for you. I trust you've noticed we're currently contending with a Grannvale invasion? They have taken Prince Lewyn captive! My scouts report that their army is arresting and executing anyone and anything which stands in their way. Your prince is being held in Evans Castle. Reports say that he is soon to face the axe.
Erinys: No... I can't allow this! Thank you for your assistance. We'll leave to rescue him at once. Our queen, Rahna, cautioned us against clashing with other nations on our mission, but we may have no choice. Should Grannvale's troops cross our way, they'll be confronted without hesitation.
Chagall: Oho... This is even better than I'd hoped! Best of luck on your hunt.
Erinys: I'll be on my way, then.
Chagall: She's gone... Pah! Stupid little girl. Ready the Agusty knights to deploy! End those pigs in a single strike!

Sigurd: Good. Mackily is ours. That leaves the capital, Agusty...
Oifey: Indeed, sire, but don't get too careless. We've been informed that Agusty still hosts a sizable defensive force. We ought to take the most utmost care.
Sigurd: Mm, you're right. Who knows what Chagall has up his sleeve...

Chagall: W-what?! Mackily has fallen too? Ugh... Zane! Your unit's our last line of defense. Take the field, immediately!
Zane: Y-yes, sir, but-
Chagall: Cease your whining! Get out there!
Manfroy: Chagall... So quick to panic at the first sign of trouble, are we?
Chagall: Y-you! Manfroy!! If it weren't for your schemes, I wouldn't be in this mess! How in the blazes will you fix this?!
Manfroy: Heh heh... You exaggerate my role. All I did was advise the removal of the king, obstacle to your ambition as he was. All else was your choice. Can you doubt this?
Chagall: I... Damn it all! How is Sigurd's little army even this strong? This isn't fair! Manfroy, I'm begging you... Help me. What am I supposed to do now?!
Manfroy: As I said, this isn't over. As a last resort, I do believe you have a fellow of use imprisoned here... Yes, I speak of Eldigan. Eldigan and Sigurd have been associates for years. Sigurd will unquestionably listen to Eldigan's counsel. Of course, Eldigan can't do that while locked up, can he? Go apologize to him.
Chagall: Er... Y-yes, of course! Surely, Eldigan is the answer! Now, if you'll excuse me...
Manfroy: Ugh... what a simpleton.
Dark mage: Your Excellency, I bear news from the east. Just now, I bore witness to the assassination of Prince Kurth.
Manfroy: Is that so? Excellent. This grows more interesting, if I do say so myself. With Kurth's death there remains but a single scion to Naga's holy lineage, and that old fool hardly needs our help to die. And then, all that will remain is the restoration of the dark one, and then the world will belong to us...
Dark mage: What of Duke Arvis, Your Excellency? Is he in agreement with your plan?
Manfroy: Why, of course. As a bearer of the dark one's blood, what choice does he have? Not even one of Arvis' stature can afford the wider world learning of his dark heritage, lest he be burned at the stake. Could a man as prideful as Arvis bear to meet such an end?
Dark mage: So he will betray his king and style himself emperor, and...
Manfroy: Indeed... But that will not be enough. Arvis alone cannot restore the dark god. We still need one more person... That woman's daughter.

Zane: Men, move out! We may die here today, but we shall die in the fatherland's name!

@End 
Yves: Milady, we three shall return to Nordion. Before we leave, however, we have something for you. This ring will help you fight more like a mounted knight. Put it on and it will allow you to keep moving after fighting or healing. I know it will prove highly useful to you. Take care, milady!

Sigurd: Deirdre?! Oh, thank the gods! You’re alright!
Deirdre: Mm. The enemy captured and imprisoned me, but I knew... I knew you would come for me, no matter what. 

Oifey: Sire, King Chagall survived the battle, but he was badly wounded. He's currently being attended to by a royal priest.
Sigurd: From what I heard, somebody pulled him from the battlefield when he was defeated. Who in the world would've done that...?
Eldigan: That was me, Sigurd. I rescued King Chagall. I preserved the life of the last survivor of the Agusty dynasty. No matter how unwise his decisions, no matter how ill his temper, I cannot sit in silence and allow my liege to die.
Sigurd: Hm? Eldigan?! You're safe! Thank the gods! I've been looking everywhere for you, since I heard you'd been arrested.
Eldigan: I suppose I was... But what is the meaning of this, Sigurd? Why is your army swarming the capital the first thing I found upon release? Why are reports saying our castles are now under the rule of Grannvale officers, as if we are a mere tributary state? I'm indisposed for barely any time at all, only to find Grannvale has made itself at home in Agustria behind my back! There had better be a damned good explanation for all of this, Sigurd, or there will be consequences.
Sigurd: I'm so sorry, Eldigan. You're absolutely right: none of this makes sense to me, either. As if out of nowhere, the entirety of Agustria suddenly turned against us. We had no choice. I've been ordered to remain here with my army for the time being, to maintain peace and order. Eldigan, please. I know this is a dreadful situation, but one year is all I need. I can restore the country's peace to normal and repair our diplomatic ties, but only if I'm allowed time to do it. Once our time is through, we'll leave your country with no objections. My king and I pledge our word.
Eldigan: Hm... I suppose I've little choice but to take you at your word. Very well: you have your year. I shall relocate the king to the northern Madino Castle for his own protection. I'll also leave my Cross Knights stationed at Fort Silvail. Offer even the slightest provocation, and your forces will have us to answer to. Remember, I'm holding you to your word. Break your promise, and we will break you. Do I make myself clear, Sigurd?
Sigurd: Of course. You know I'm not about to betray you. Please, Eldigan. You have to trust me!

@Visit 
Man: Anphony's Lord Macbeth is the foulest, most gold-obsessed man there is. He does nothin' but torment us for his own profit. I wish I could kill em' with my bare hands!

Young woman: Hey, thanks for saving us! I want you to have this, one of my favorite things. It's a pretty little bracelet, huh? Wear it at the shops and the nice man there'll be happy to give ya a discount!

Woman: War's the most dreadful thing, and 'tis always the innocent and helpless who suffer most for it. Please... go home to your families.

Old man: We can’t thank you enough for helpin’ us. This here sword’s the best we can do. It’s an unusual sword, innit? They call it an armorslayer. In the right hands it’ll cleave through the thickest armor. If your hands aren’t the right hands, though? Maybe it can make ya a quick buck at the pawn shop.

Woman: Lord Eldigan is a sincere and righteous man, but alas, his sincerity's never been welcome to the ears of King Chagall. That's gotta be why he was locked up. Please, for the good of all Agustria... Help Lord Eldigan!

Man: The great Lord Eldigan of Nordion is a descendant of Hezul the Brave, one of the legendary Twelve Crusaders. He wields Hezul's old weapon, Mystletainn, the demon blade. They say it's as strong as Isaach's Balmung and Chalphy's Tyrfing... The three mightiest blades in all of creation.

Old man: The late King Imca was truly a great man. His sudden passing has been nothin' but devastating for us all. He's barely been buried for long and his son Chagall's already runnin' the country into the ground! If Lord Eldigan had a claim to the throne, somehow, then we wouldn't be in this mess...

Woman: Psst! Wanna hear something saucy? Y’know how Lord Eldigan has a li’l sister, right? Well, lookin’ at ‘em, wouldn’t ya say there’s more to it than that? If you know what I mean... Ohoho! I love me a li’l bit of gossip! Hmm? I’ve better things to do than run me mouth, y’say? Fine, then. 

Young man: There's still gotta be descendants of the dark lord Loptyr livin' somewhere, right? Folk in the big cities like Agusty an' Mackily certainly seem to think so. Every year they do these huge hunts for Loptyr's spawn. They arrest a ton of people, then burn 'em all at the stake, even if they're innocent... Madness, I tell ya!

Old man: Beware of Bishop Clement, the lord of Mackily Castle. That dastard wields a magical staff that they call a Sleep staff. If you're not careful, you'll find yourself snoozin' and wide open to bein' attacked.

@Recruit-Talk 
%Sigurd,Lachesis
Lachesis: Sir Sigurd! Thank goodness you're here! Things were looking so bleak for a moment...
Sigurd: I'm glad to see you're safe, Lachesis. What about Eldigan? Is he still being held?
Lachesis: Yes, he's still in Agusty... It's as if all the lords of Agustria have turned on us. Please, Sir Sigurd... Lend us your might. No matter what it takes, my brother must be saved.
Sigurd: Of course. I've no fondness for bringing war to foreign lands, but in this case we've little choice. His Majesty, King Azmur, is aware of King Imca's assassination, and of Chagall's hand in it. He's received word of Chagall's ambitions to invade Grannvale itself, and has already approved military action. His Majesty also believes Eldigan's rescue to be vital if we're to put an end to hostilities. Rest assured, Lachesis. I swear that I'll save Eldigan...

%Lewyn,Erinys
Lewyn: Wait... Erinys?! The hell are you doing here?
Erinys: Huh? Aren't you... ...It can't be! Prince Lewyn?! ...What exactly are you wearing, milord?
Lewyn: What, this? I'm a bard now. You know, walking the land, spreading songs and cheer? What do you say: perfect, or perfect?
Erinys: Er... Perfect? But why, milord... Aren't you supposed to be held captive at Evans? I got here as fast as I could, but...
Lewyn: I'm imprisoned at Evans, am I? Where'd you hear that one?
Erinys: King Chagall of Agustria said so.
Lewyn: Chagall? Hah! Hate to break it to you, Erinys, but you've been tricked! It's nice and all that you're so ready to trust, but you wouldn't last ten seconds out there in the city! It'd eat you and your innocence alive. You might even end up like Silvia...
Erinys: Silvia, milord...?
Lewyn: Oh, Silvia's... Er, it's not important. Point is, what are you doing all the way out here?
Erinys: Isn't it obvious? I'm here to find and bring you home, milord. It's been two years since you fled Silesse. Her Majesty is gravely worried about you. Please, milord. Come home with me.
Lewyn: Do you have any idea what that'd do to Silesse, Erinys? If I go back, I'll have no choice but to take the throne. It's my late father's will, but my uncles would never accept it. Just one false step and we'd have a civil war, just like here. And it's always the common folk who suffer for it! If there are people who want to be kings or whatever, great! Out here, though? I'm free, and I like it that way. I don't want a thing to do with that throne. For the good of Silesse, just give it to one of my uncles.
Erinys: I can't allow that, milord. You know as well as I that the kings of Silesse must bear descent from Forseti, the wind god. You, milord, are the sole living scion of his lineage. Neither of your uncles bear it. You milord, are Silesse's future! Yourself and your uncles aside, all Silesse wishes to see you claim the throne. And... And your mother, the queen, was in tears when she sent me... Please, milord... Come back.
Lewyn: Erinys... Ugh, don't you start crying too! Give me a break... I can't stand to see a woman in tears... Okay, fine. I'll think about going home. Just... Give me some time to muster the nerve, alright?
Erinys: Thank you. In that case, I'm staying with you until you're ready, milord. I'll send a messenger back to Silesse to report that you're safe.
Lewyn: Wow, you're persistent, I'll grant you that. All right. I think I'll stay with Sigurd's army for now. He's a pretty neat guy to work with, not to mention his army's full of beauties! Hey, Erinys, you could stand to get to know some of the ladies here. Maybe their stylishness could rub off on you a bit!
Erinys: Yes, milord...
Lewyn: Hey, I'm just kidding, Erinys! Relax a bit! Don't take everything so seriously! ...Heh, nobody in the world's as sweet as you. Don't you ever change a thing.
Erinys: Y-yes, sir... I mean, no, milord...

@Battle-Talk 
%Deirdre,Ethlyn
Ethlyn: How are you faring so far, Deirdre? I know my brother is worried something fierce about you risking your life like this.
Deirdre: Ethlyn...? Thank you for asking, but I'm doing just fine for now. Everything will be alright. I can feel it. So long as I'm at Sigurd's side, our happiness will see us through.
Ethlyn: I don't think I've ever seen Sigurd as happy as he's been since he met you. He's practically a changed man!
Deirdre: Ethlyn... Here. I'd like you to have this. I've been meaning to give it to you for a while.
Ethlyn: Oh? ...Is- is this a light brand?! Wow... These are so rare and hard to come by! Are you sure you want to give me this?
Deirdre: Of course. I know that it will serve you well.
Ethlyn: I can't thank you enough, Deirdre! I'll always treasure it!

%Dew,Lachesis
Dew: Hey! Lachesis! There y'are! Check out this little beauty of a sword! Thought I'd give it to ya.
Lachesis: Oh? I can't say I've seen a blade so peculiar before. Does it have a name?
Dew: It's called a thief's sword. Wanna gut the bad guys? This thing's yer best friend.
Lachesis: Er... Thank you. Although, why are you giving this to me? I'm hardly complaining, but surely you need a decent sword?
Dew: Nah, I'm not bothered. There ain't any point in me keeping it. Let's just say it does a lot more than just stab... Heh. See ya around!

%Quan,Finn 
Quan: Finn, these Agustrians are proving to be far worthier opponents than the thugs of Verdane, wouldn't you say? For stronger enemies, what could be more fitting than a stronger weapon? Let's see how you fare with this.
Finn: Is that... a brave lance?! Are you sure you want to entrust me with such a rarity?
Quan: Of course. You are House Leonster's most promising young knight. You are our future, and I'd sooner see you live this day. Arming you properly is the best I can do to help for now, so yes. Take this spear.
Finn: What an honor, milord! Thank you.

%Sigurd,Lewyn
Sigurd: Lewyn, I presume? The one who's been helping defend the villages? I appreciate the aid. As I understand it, you're a bard, but you also wield magic? That's unusual.
Lewyn: Something like that. I guess it's a hobby. You're that Sigurd fellow, aren't you? It's obvious what your little hobby is: war! Clearly you've got so much spare time, you spend it starting war after war!
Sigurd: Come again? You seem angry, but-
Lewyn: Don't play dumb! Think about the people of all the countries that you're flattening! You come barging in, swords flashing, and all you do is ruin the lives of normal folk who're trying to make a living here!
Sigurd: You're right. My apologies, Lewyn... I didn't even think about that, but I can't stand knowing I've done this to them.
Lewyn: Words are just words without actions backing them up. If you really feel so bad, then why not pull your army out?
Sigurd: Mm, you're right... Very well. I'll consult with my troops and arrange a retreat.
Lewyn: Wait, you're serious about this?
Sigurd: Of course. I've been mulling over retreating for a while already, and you just gave me the answer to all of this. I've had enough of the war approach. I think I'd rather seek a diplomatic answer.
Lewyn: Yeah, no. Trying to get through to Chagall now would be a total waste of everyone's time. Besides, if you lot pull out now, then nothing stands between a peeved king and all the citizens who've helped you so far. Are you sure you're okay with leaving them all hanging like that?
Sigurd: Well, no, but... Er... I...
Lewyn: Ahahaha! Y'know, I guess I was wrong about you. You're alright, Sigurd. Say, why don't I help you finish this fight up?
Sigurd: Er... Okay, I suppose... Who are you, anyway?
Lewyn: Who, me? I'm just a wayward troubadour, my friend...

%Alex,Silvia
Alec: Hey! You're Silvia, aren't you? Excuse me for being so forward, but you're adorable!
Silvia: Finally! Here I was, thinkin' this army's nothin' but stiff and borin' military types. It's about time someone appreciated me!
Alec: Heh, I guess I'm the only decent guy around here. Glad I found you.
Silvia: Thanks! Me, too!
Alec: I guess we'll be here a while, so how about dinner sometime? Bet that'd be nice.
Silvia: Ooh, yeah! Maybe I'll dance for you too! I've got a special one that nobody's seen yet. It's kinda embarrassing, 'cause it's VERY special. Maybe I'll show it to ya, though!
Alec: Y-you will? Oh, I can't wait!

%Silvia,Sigurd
Silvia: Eee! It's the great Lord Sigurd!
Sigurd: Er... Hello, there? You're a dancer, right? The battlefield is too dangerous for the likes of you. Go back to the castle.
Silvia: Come on, sir! Don'tcha know who I am? I'm Silviaaaaaaa! You can call me Silvie if ya want, though!
Sigurd: Look, I'm sorry, but I really don't have the time to look after children. Be a good little girl and run along back to the castle, alright?
Silvia: Rrrgh... Good little girl?! Look at me! How d'you look at someone this hot and think "little girl"?! What is wrong with you? Never thought ya'd be such a borin' old stiff, just like everyone else 'round here...
Sigurd: Enough! I have work to do.
Silvia: Sigh... Oh, well. Back to being a lone, delicate flower, sprouting in a battlefield... My beauty is nothing to the tide of bodies...
Sigurd: Ugh... What in the world is...

%Beowulf,Lachesis
Beowulf: Hey, you! You're that Nordion lady, aren't ya?
Lachesis: E-excuse me?! Such boorishness! What manner of lowlife is asking?
Beowulf: Oh, er, sorry 'bout that, ma'am. The name's Beowulf, a hired blade.
Lachesis: What do you want?
Beowulf: Uh... Well, I just wanted to give ya a quick heads up about fightin'. See, war ain't the fun and games you're used to. And someone as green as you... Well, you're gonna get in the way. Besides, a princess's a princess. Why not run along back to your castle now?
Lachesis: H-how dare you! My business in battle is just that: my business! Not yours! I'll nail your foul mouth closed!
Beowulf: Heh. You really are Eldigan's sister. Shoulda known you wouldn't be a pushover.
Lachesis: What's that? Do you know my brother?!
Beowulf: Oh, yeah. Eldigan and me, we go way back. I'd never've been so noisy if he hadn't asked me to keep an eye on ya.
Lachesis: Is that so? Oh, I'm sorry for snapping at you so.
Beowulf: Eh, I've seen a lot worse in me time. Hey, how about a quick battle lesson? Eldigan thought it'd be a big help.
Lachesis: Why, thank you. I'd like that.

%Erinys,Sigurd
Erinys: Lord Sigurd, I presume?
Sigurd: I am indeed. And you, madam?
Erinys: My name is Erinys. I'm a royal knight of Silesse. I wish to join your army, so as to keep an eye on Prince Lewyn.
Sigurd: Er... Prince Lewyn? What are you on about?
Erinys: My lord Lewyn is the rightful heir to the Silessian crown. He is a scion of Ced, the Wind Crusader, and is the sole inheritor of his power.
Sigurd: Wait, THAT Lewyn?! Heh... I knew there was something odd about him, but I'd never have thought him to be Silessian royalty. Any idea why he's pretending to be a bard?
Erinys: That's a long story, sir, and I'm hardly the most qualified to tell it. Perhaps try asking him later, but for now...
Sigurd: Fair enough. It's hardly my business, anyway. I'm glad you're here, Erinys. A pegasus knight among us would be a great help. Would you mind aiding us in battle?
Erinys: Yes, sir! I'll do my part!

@Recruit-Battle 
Beowulf: Don't take this personally, yeah? We've all gotta make a living...

Beowulf: D-damn... this just aint my...

Erinys: Listen carefully, Grannvale knight! Release Prince Lewyn immediately!

Erinys: Oh... Queen Rahna... I failed you... Forgive me...

%Lewyn,Erinys
Erinys: Prince Lewyn?! This can't be happening...

@Boss 
Elliot: Gah... Grannvale! Don't interfere with this, unless you want me to wipe the floor with you too!

%Lachesis,Elliot
Elliot: Lachesis! I grow weary of this little song and dance! Become my wife, and I'll spare you.
Lachesis: Enough, you vile worm! I'd sooner die than be your wife!

@Boss
Elliot: Gah! Blast... Why must... everything... go Eldigan's...

Philip: Warriors of Grannvale... So long as I draw breath, you shall never reach Heirhein!

Philip: L-Lord Bordeaux... I beg... your pardon...

Bordeaux: Grannvale's here already! Blast... Why couldn't my men have been useful for once? Fine, I'll take this into my own hands!

Bordeaux: Gah... My... castle...

Waltz: You seem like decent folk, but a job's a job. Too bad.

Waltz: Th-this can't be... You got me...

%Beowulf,Waltz
Waltz: Heh... Beowulf. You ain't even close to a match for me yet.
Beowulf: Oh, definitely... But this is what they're payin' me for.

@Boss 
Macbeth: I-it can't be! Grannvale's here already? Damn it all! What are those useless mercenaries doing out there?! Ugh... Fine, I'll fight them myself!

Macbeth: Ugh... why me...?

%Lewyn,Macbeth
Macbeth: H-huh? Who are you?
Lewyn: You're that Macbeth slime, aren't you? You've no business being a lord. Here, allow me to help you... retire.

@Boss 
Chagall: Tch... Don't even think about underestimating me. You don't stand a chance of besting me!

Chagall: Urgh... No, w-wait! Spare me! Please...

Zane: Grannvale's dogs stand no chance in the face of my warrior's pride! I'll put an end to your rampage!

Zane: No... Is this... the beginning of the end... for Agustria... 

%Lachesis,Chagall
Chagall: Eldigan's little sister? What do you think you're doing, defying your king like this?!
Lachesis: I'd sooner bow to a festering pig than call you my king! Return my brother! Now!

%Erinys,Chagall
Chagall: Heh heh... So, it's you again. You've finally realized, have you? Ignorant wench.
Erinys: How dare you, Chagall! You'll pay dearly for deceiving me! Prepare yourself!!
/***EOF***/
@Dialogue 
Lewyn: Congratulations, Seliph! You’ve endured so much so well to make it this far.
Seliph: Thank you, Lewyn, but our victory means precious little while our world still lies in ruins. Where do we begin from there?
Lewyn: There’s only one way to rebuild all the sacred lands. Everyone needs to come together and share the work among you. And for that, you’ll need a good leader. The crusaders’ heirs will be returning home to assume their rightful thrones. And with the proper leadership, they can pool their strengths again to build a new world, one where all can live in happiness. 
Seliph: A new world, you say... 
Lewyn: Yeah, Seliph.. A new world. And your role is the most crucial of all. You’ll remain here in Belhalla, and you’ll guide the rise of this new world as the King of Grannvale.
Seliph: Hold on. I’M to be the king?!

^start
Lewyn: Mm-hmm. After all that’s happened, you and Julia are the last living heirs of the blood of Grannvale’s kings. The two of you have inherited the last will of all who lost their lives on this path. These souls watch over you, even now. You mustn’t forget the light for which they strove. 
Seliph: Mm... I understand, Lewyn. So long as I have the power, I’ll do all I can.
Lewyn: Now, Julia. What do you say?
Julia: I agree, of course. I wish to aid Lord Seliph... No, my lord brother, every step of the way. I know this path will be a gruelling one, but that’s all the more reason to give it my all...
Julia: Lady Lover, you’ll do all you can to aid my brother as well, won’t you?
Lover: Yes, and gladly so! But, er... Lady Julia, what about...
Julia: I... I must atone for the fate of Lord Sigurd... I know that’s what my mother, Lady Deirdre, would wish of me...

Lewyn: Mm-hmm. You and Julia were the last surviving heirs of the blood of Grannvale’s kings. But we lost Julia in today’s battle...
Seliph: Julia... I swore I would always protect her... And I failed. Her death is my fault...
Lewyn: Whatever you do, you can’t let Julia’s death be in vain, Seliph. She bore the weight of her awful fate on her shoulders, but still she never gave up. I guess she got that from her mother in a way. Deirdre, too, was always haunted by her mistakes and failures. I’m sure you understand, Seliph, that you inherited the last will on all those who lost their lives on this path. These souls watch over you, even now. You mustn’t forget the light for which they strove.
Seliph: Of course... I understand, Lewyn. I’ll guide this world with all I have, so long as I draw breath. In Julia’s name...
^end

Lewyn: Well, then! Looks like everyone is making their way here from the front lines. Seliph, this’ll be your first task as king. I’m sure they’d all love some words of thanks.

Shannan: Well, that’s it. I’m going home, Seliph. I’ve left the Isaachian people to wait long enough.
Seliph: I doubt I could ever thank you enough for all you’ve done for me, Shannan. All my life, you’ve been here to protect me at every turn. I owe you so dearly.
Shannan: Your father, Lord Sigurd, was always there for me when I was a child, as was the Lady Deirdre. But when we lost Lady Deirdre, I couldn’t do a thing to stop it... I failed Lord Sigurd. Even now, I’ll never forget that day.... You don’t owe me a thing, Seliph. Not when I’ve caused you so much pain...
Seliph: No, Shannan. If it weren’t for you and the people of Isaach, I wouldn’t be here today. To me, Isaach will always be home. Nothing will ever change that.
Shannan: I’m sure everyone back in Isaach will be heartened to hear such kind words.
^start
Lover: Come on, Shannan. Lord Seliph is the king of Grannvale-to-be yet here you are, talking to him as if he’s but your younger brother. 
Shannan: Lover... Yeah, I suppose you’re right. I ought to put on proper airs! “King Seliph”.... No, that’s not quite right. Perhaps “Your Imperial Majesty, the King” then?
Lover: I’m sorry... I shouldn’t have said that. Bidding farewell to Lord Seliph must be hard enough without my commentary! My apologies, to both of you. I shouldn’t have said something so crass...
Shannan: Heh, it’s fine. You did speak honestly, after all.
Lover: Shannan...

Lover: C’mon, Shannan! This is Grannvale’s new king you’re talking to here. I’m not sure you should be this brotherly to him.
Shannan: Lover... Yeah, I suppose you’re right. I ought to put on proper airs! “King Seliph”.... No, that’s not quite right. Perhaps “Your Imperial Majesty, the King” then?
Lover: Oh! I didn’t mean to anger you, Shannan. You’re right... Parting ways like this has to be so painful for you already. I’m really sorry. That was just horrid of me.
Shannan: Heh, it’s fine. You did speak honestly, after all.
Lover: Shannan...
^end 

Seliph: I’ve always thought of you as a brother, Shannan. I pray we never forget that bond.
Shannan: My blade will always be yours, King Seliph. I’ll never forget that so long as I live.

Scáthach: Lord Seliph, I’m headed home with the king. I’ve got a country to help King Shannan rebuild. That’s all I really want.
Seliph: Ah, of course, Scáthach. I know King Shannan will depend on your support. And I know your mother, Lady Ayra, would love nothing more than for you to devote your life to the Isaachian people.
Scáthach: Yes, sir. My life is theirs!
^start 
Lana: I’ve never seen you so happy, Scáthach. But then again, knowing we’re finally about to go home, I feel the same way!
Scáthach: Oh, you too? I almost forgot. We both grew up in Isaach, didn’t we?
Lana: Mm...
Scáthach: We’re going back together, right?
Lana: Yes... I’ve always hoped we would.
Scáthach: Whew! I’m relieved to hear you say it.

Lover: I’ve never seen you this happy, Scáthach! It must be nice to finally be going home!
Scáthach: It’s only natural, Lover. I did spend most of my life there, after all!
Lover: So, er...
Scáthach: Yeah...?
Lover: Say, Scáthach... Is it okay if I come with you?
Scáthach: What, you want to come? To Isaach? With me?
Lover: I do...
Scáthach: Wow... Thanks, Lover!
^end 

Scáthach: I’m heading home now, King Seliph. With King Shannan’s death, it’s up to me to protect Isaach in his place.
Seliph: Ah, of course, Scáthach. You’re next in line for the Isaachian throne, are you not? I know you’ll take good care of the people.
Scáthach: Yes, sir. My life is theirs!
^start
Lover: Still glum, huh, Scáthach... Lord Shannan’s death is really hurting you...
Scáthach: There’s no way it couldn’t. He was the closest thing that Larcei and I ever had to a father. I’ll never forgive myself...
Lover: Huh... You think I can help you at all by staying by your side?
Scáthach: Huh... You’re not serious, Lover?
Lover: Yep! If that’s what you want, Lover...

Lover: You still look so sad, Scáthach. Lord Shannan’s death still weighs heavily on you, doesn’t it?
Scáthach: There’s no way it couldn’t. He was the closest thing that Larcei and I ever had to a father. I’ll never forgive myself...
Lover: Perhaps... Do you think having me around will do you any good?
Scáthach: Huh... You’re not serious, Lover?
Lover: If that’s what you want, Scáthach, then I am... 

Lover: You look awfully sad, Scáthach... Lord Shannan’s death is still troubling you, right?
Scáthach: There’s no way it couldn’t. He was the closest thing that Larcei and I ever had to a father. I’ll never forgive myself...
Lover: Huh... Do you think having me by your side will do you any good?
Scáthach: Huh? ...You’re not serious, Lover?
Lover: If you want me there, Scáthach, then I am... 
^end

Larcei: I’m going home with Scáthach, Lord Seliph.
Seliph: Larcei... I know we’ll meet again someday. Take care....

Larcei: I’m going home with the king, Lord Seliph.
Seliph: You still feel lonesome, yes? After what happened to Scáthach, I mean... I pray you’ll still work your hardest for Isaach. 
Larcei: I know, I know! I’m fine. I... I’m so proud of my brother. 
Seliph: Larcei... I know we’ll meet again someday. Take care....

Larcei: I’m going home, Lord Seliph.
Seliph: Larcei, I... I beg your forgiveness for what happened to Lover.
Larcei: No, sir. It’s my fault that he’s... I failed to protect him. I’ll never forget the time we had together, no matter what...
Seliph: Larcei... I know we’ll meet again someday. Take care...

Rodolbahn: Okay, Lord Seliph, I’m headed home with King Shannan. I’ve got a country to help them rebuild. That’s all I really want.
Seliph: Ah, of course, Rodolbahn. I know he’ll depend on your support. I pray your combined might will bring peace to the people of Isaach. 
Rodolbahn: Yes, sir. My life is theirs!
^start
Lana: I’ve never seen you so happy, Rodolbahn. But then again, knowing we’re finally about to go home, I feel the same way!
Rodolbahn: Oh, you too? I almost forgot. We both grew up in Isaach, didn’t we?
Lana: Mm...
Rodolbahn: We’re going back together, right?
Lana: Yes... I’ve always hoped we would.
Rodolbahn: Whew! I’m relieved to hear you say it.

Lover: I’ve never seen you this happy, Rodolbahn! It must be nice to finally be going home!
Rodolbahn: It’s only natural, Lover. I did spend most of my life there, after all!
Lover: So, er...
Rodolbahn: Yeah...?
Lover: Say, Rodolbahn... Is it okay if I come with you?
Rodolbahn: What, you want to come? To Isaach? With me?
Lover: I do...
Rodolbahn: Wow... Thanks, Lover!
^end 

Rodolbahn: Okay, Lord Seliph, I’m headed home. Now that King Shannan’s dead, Isaach needs someone like me to watch over it in his place.
Seliph: Ah, of course, Rodolbahn. King Shannan’s demise brought an end to the royal Isaachian bloodline, yes? I promise you Grannvale will do all it can to aid you, but the welfare and defense of Isaach will depend on you. 
Rodolbahn: Yes, sir. My life is theirs!
^start
Lover: Still glum, huh, Rodolbahn... Lord Shannan’s death is really hurting you...
Rodolbahn: There’s no way it couldn’t. He was the closest thing that Radney and I ever had to a father. I’ll never forgive myself...
Lover: Huh... You think I can help you at all by staying by your side?
Rodolbahn: Huh... You’re not serious, Lover?
Lover: Yep! If that’s what you want, Lover...

Lover: You still look so sad, Rodolbahn. Lord Shannan’s death still weighs heavily on you, doesn’t it?
Rodolbahn: There’s no way it couldn’t. He was the closest thing that Radney and I ever had to a father. I’ll never forgive myself...
Lover: Perhaps... Do you think having me around will do you any good?
Rodolbahn: Huh... You’re not serious, Lover?
Lover: If that’s what you want, Rodolbahn, then I am... 
^end 

Radney: I’m going home with Rodolbahn, Lord Seliph.
Seliph: Radney... I know we’ll meet again someday. Take care... 

Radney: I’m going home with the king, Lord Seliph.
Seliph: Radney, I... I beg your forgiveness for what happened to Rodolbahn. 
Radney: No, sir. I believe he died a happy man. I... I’m proud of him, I guess...
Seliph: Radney... I know we’ll meet again someday. Take care... 

Radney: I’m going home, Lord Seliph.
Seliph: Radney, I... I beg your forgiveness for what happened to Lover.
Radney: No, sir. It’s my fault that he’s... I failed to protect him. I’ll never forget the time we had together, no matter what...
Seliph: Radney... I know we’ll meet again someday. Take care...

Dimna: Lord Seliph... 
Seliph: You’re bound for Isaach as well, Dimna?
Dimna: I am. Thanks for everything, sir. 
Seliph: Oh, no. It is I who owes you thanks! Thank you, Dimna.
Dimna: Take care of yourself, sir!
^start
Lover: Going back to Isaach, Dimna?
Dimna: Yeah, that’s the plan... 
Lover: Huh... Really?
Dimna: Yeah... And I really want you to come with me, Lover. 
Lover: Wait, really?! You REALLY want me to take you along?
Dimna: Yeah! I mean, if you want to come, of course. 

Lover: Are you going back to Isaach, Dimna?
Dimna: Yeah, that’s the plan... 
Lover: Hm... Is that so... 
Dimna: Yeah... And I really want you to come with me, Lover.
Lover: Eh? Really?! You... You really want me with you... 
Dimna: Yeah! I mean, if you want to come, of course. 

Larcei: You’re going back to Isaach, right, Dimna?
Dimna: Yeah, that’s the plan... Are you?
Larcei: I, er... I’m not sure I should... 
Dimna: ...I want to go home with you, Larcei.
Larcei: Er, why?
Dimna: Because I love you, silly!
Larcei: Wh- You can’t just say this stuff out loud, you moron! Eh, doesn’t matter. We’ll go home... together. 
^end 

Mana: Thank you so much for all you’ve done for me, Lord Seliph. 
Seliph: Mana... So even you... 
Mana: Isaach is the only place I could ever call home. I need to work with Dimna and the others to restore Isaach.
Seliph: Mana... 

Mana: Thank you so much for all you’ve done for me, Lord Seliph.
Seliph: Mana.... I’m so, so sorry.
Mana: Why?
Seliph: I let Lover die... I couldn’t do a thing to save him. But he still keeps watch over you, even now... I know it.
Mana: Y-yes, Lord Seliph... 

Mana: Thank you so much for all you’ve done for me, Lord Seliph. 
Seliph: Mana... So even you... 
Mana: Isaach is the only place I could ever call home. I know it’ll be lonesome, but there’s nothing I can do now...
Seliph: I’m so sorry, Mana...

Lewyn: Well, it’s time to say goodbye. Best of luck!

Leif: I couldn’t possibly thank you enough for everything, Lord Seliph. I’ll be departing for Leonster shortly. The Thracian peninsula has suffered from war long enough, and it’s high time that we rebuilt.
Leif: I know my sister, Altena, wishes dearly for a restored Thracia as well.
Seliph: Indeed. This war has lain waste upon Thracia, and I cannot imagine the burden laid upon you, the king-to-be of a united peninsula... I pray that you give it your best, no matter what happens.
Leif: I will. You take care as well, Lord Seliph.
Seliph: Long ago, our fathers Sigurd and Quan were bound by the closest of friendships, sharing their deaths as they did their lives. Prince Leif, I’d love nothing more than for us to follow their example and remain lifelong friends.
Leif: As do I, Lord Seliph!
^start
Lover: You’re about to leave, aren’t you, Leif?
Leif: Do you wish to accompany me, Lover?
Lover: Huh? Would that really be alright with you?
Leif: But of course! All I want is to have you and your might by my side.
Lover: Th-thank you!

Lover: So you’re off, Leif?
Leif: Do you wish to accompany me, Lover?
Lover: Huh? You’d be fine with me coming!?
Leif: But of course! All I want is to have you and your might by my side.
Lover: Hwaaah! Thank you, Leif!

Larcei: Leif... You’re off soon, aren’t you?
Leif: Do you want to accompany me, Larcei?
Larcei: Huh? You really want me to come?
Leif: But of course! 
^end 

Seliph: So you’re destined for Thracia as well, Princess Altena...
Altena: I am, sir. I’ve got to help the new king in his quest to give rise to a unified Thracia... At the very least, I ought to atone for the legacy of my adopted family... Travant and Arion.

Seliph: How wonderful it would be, if Arion were to work together with you...
Altena: I... I don’t believe that could happen for the time being, sir. But perhaps someday, he’ll feel the time is right...

Finn: I shall be bound for home as well, milord. I wish you the best of health.
Seliph: Sir Finn, you’ve come to my family’s aid time and again, and for twenty years played a crucial part in both my cause and Father’s. I couldn’t possibly thank you enough...
Finn: No, I am a servant of House Leonster. As a knight, I have but followed where my lieges have led. No more, no less.
Seliph: Thracia is in your hands, Sir Finn. I hope you’ll assist Prince Leif in granting Thracia its hard-won peace.
Finn: Yes, sir. A peaceful Thracia was my Lord Quan’s lifelong dream as well, and I’ll do all that I can to bring that dream to life. 

Hannibal: Many thanks, King Seliph! I shall excuse myself now.
Seliph: Are you headed for Thracia as well, General Hannibal?
Hannibal: Indeed. Thracia yet hangs in the balance, and the people await my return.
Seliph: Who better to lead the reconstruction of Thracia than a mighty war hero? Do your best for the youths of Thracia. 

Seliph: Ah, Cairpre. I presume you’ll be departing with the general?
Cairpre: I am, sir. I will be going with Papa to work to rebuild Thracia.
Seliph: I see... You know, Cairpre, I’ve seldom seen anyone as happy as you are now. I confess I’m a bit envious!
Cairpre: I’m so proud of Papa, sir. I may just be adopted, but I’m still the son of the great General Hannibal!
^start
Lover: Aww, how adorable. Good thing you’ve now got me to be like a big sister for you!
Cairpre: Huh, Lover? ...What exactly are you talking about?
Lover: Hee hee! You really are still just a kid! Relax, it’ll all make total sense one day.

Lover: You really are the cutest, Cairpre. And from now on, you’ll have me around to be your older sister!
Cairpre: Huh, Lover? ...What exactly are you talking about?
Lover: You really are still a child. Don’t worry. Someday you’ll understand everything.

Lover: You’re adorable, Cairpre, y’know that? I guess from now on, you’ll need me to look after you like a big sister should.
Cairpre: Huh, Lover? ...What exactly are you talking about?
Lover: Eh, I guess you’re still just a kid. Don’t worry, you’ll get it someday.

Lover: C’mon, Cairpre. Cheer up! You’re a man now, right? It’ll all work out. I’ve got your back from now on.
Cairpre: Huh, Lover? ...What exactly are you talking about?
Lover: Eh, I guess you’re still just a kid. Don’t worry, you’ll get it someday.
^end

Asaello: I’m going home as well, Seliph. I owe you real big. 
Seliph: You’re a Connaught native, yes?
Asaello: Yeah. My folks were hunters workin’ in Connaught. They were pretty poor, then they got caught up in the war and got killed. 
Seliph: Is that so...
Asaello: Guess that’s why I hate kings and nobles. Well, most of em. I mean, you’re actually alright, Seliph. Good luck out there, okay? 
Seliph: Thank you, Asaello. 
^start
Lover: You’re sad, aren’t you, Asaello? Sad that you need to part with Lord Seliph... 
Asaello: W-what? No, not even close! 
Lover: And being with me wouldn’t help? You’d still be lonely?
Asaello: No, that’s not it at all! You being here means so much to me. You could never not be a help!
Lover: Heh... Oh, Asaello... 

Lover: You’re sad, aren’t you, Asaello? Sad that you need to part with Lord Seliph... 
Asaello: W-what? No, not even close! 
Lover: And being with me wouldn’t help? Even then you’d still be lonely?
Asaello: No, that’s not it at all! You being here means so much to me. You could never not be a help!

Lover: Asaello, I know it’s going to be hard for you to leave Seliph. But don’t worry! I’ll always be here for you! 
Asaello: Lover... Thanks, I guess. Having you around is better than nobody.
Lover: Tee hee! You’re so cute when you’re shy! That’s why I like you.
Asaello: Oh, come on, you don’t have to put that in words. 

Larcei: Asaello... Leaving Seliph now’s gotta be pretty painful, huh? I know you’ll tough it out.
Asaello: I know that, Larcei. I’m not weak.
Larcei: What’s with the attitude? I’m just worried about you!
Asaello: Don’t worry about me. I told you, I’m not weak. You couldn’t possibly understand how I feel!
Larcei: Fine, then. I’m leaving you. You can go home by yourself!
Asaello: Hold on, I didn’t mean it... I’m sorry! Just don’t leave me!
Larcei: Hmph... 
Asaello: Larcei... Come on. I need you.
Larcei: Okay, but I need you to promise one thing: don’t talk back to me ever again.
Asaello: F-Fine... I promise...
Larcei: Then all is forgiven. Let’s go.
Asaello: Sigh... Can’t live with her, can’t live without her... 
^end 

Seliph: And you as well, Daisy?
Daisy: Yep. No offense, but I can’t say I want to sit around here twiddling my thumbs. Besides, my brother’ll need my help!
Seliph: Remember, there’s plenty to keep you busy in Connaught which doesn’t involve stealing.
Daisy: Oh! How could you SAY that, sir?! I gave the thief thing up ages ago! 
Seliph: Heh, my apologies. Well, Daisy, take care. 
Daisy: You too, sir... 

Lewyn: The job awaiting you, the heroes of Thracia, certainly won’t be easy. It’s up to you to unite two peoples divided by bitter hatred, and build for them all a new, powerful land. 

Ares: Seliph... I dearly owe you for all you’ve done to assist me. I’ll never forget so long as I live.
Seliph: Oh, no, Prince Ares. The joy chancing upon you brought is thanks enough! It was such an honor to meet the son of my father’s dearest friend. As tragic as their lives were, their faith in each other was unshakable to the very end. Our fathers, Prince Ares, were united by a single dream that their deaths left unfulfilled. Let us fulfill their dream where they cannot. Let the two of us, hand in hand, guide all Jugdral towards bringing the dream to life.
Ares: Well spoken, King Seliph! My father so dearly wished to see his beloved Agustria united in a lasting peace. In the name of his dying wish, I’ll carve up for Agustria a new, prosperous future.
^start
Ares: But my might alone shall not suffice. To this end, my dearest Lover, I pray I’ll have your strength ever by my side.
Lover: Yep, of course! I’m gonna do everything I can to help rebuild Agustria as well. Let’s all work together to build an Agustria where anyone can live happily.
Ares: Indeed! So long as you remain, I know I’ll never give up.

Ares: But my might alone shall not suffice. To this end, my dearest Lover, I pray I’ll have your strength ever by my side.
Lover: But of course. I’ll dedicate my life to helping restore Agustria as well. All these years of war have burnt deep scars in Agustria. All I want is to ensure all Agustrians can live peaceful lives.
Ares: Indeed! So long as you remain, I know I’ll never give up.
^end

Seliph: And what of you, Lene... 
Lene: I don’t exactly have a home to go to, so I thought I’d give Agustria a try.
Seliph: I see... Don’t worry too much. Somebody wonderful, I know, will be graced with your charm one day, Lene.
Lene: Hee hee... Oh, Lord Seliph! I know you’re just trying to perk me up. But it’s okay! I’ve always got dancing... I’ve been alone my whole life. Staying alone for the rest of it won’t be that bad. 
Seliph: Lene... 

Dermott: I’m going with Prince Ares to Agustria, Lord Seliph. I’ll lend the prince my strength and help rebuild the country.
Seliph: Dermott? Ah, of course. Your mother was a noblewoman of Nordion, yes?
Dermott: Lord Eldigan’s sister, Lachesis, to be exact, sir. Nobody was closer to him than she was. I’ll give my entire life to fulfilling the last wishes of my mother and Eldigan, and to creating a united Agustria. 

Nanna: Lord Seliph, I’m going to Agustria with my brother. 
Seliph: I admit this is a surprise, Nanna. I assumed you would go to Leonster...
Nanna: I know... But my work in Leonster’s done. I’ve got no regrets...
Seliph: I see... Take care, Nanna. You deserve nothing but happiness.
Nanna: And you too, Lord Seliph... 

Seliph: My apologies, Tristan, but I’d like for you to go to Agustria. Agustria is still in the midst of an agonizing war, and Prince Ares will need your help to save it.
Tristan: No, sir, I’m glad you asked. Agustria’s my home, and it’s an honor to be allowed to return there by my king!
^start
Seliph: And of course, Lover, you may go with Tristan. I’d hate to part the two of you even briefly.
Lover: Huh? You know about us, sir?! Kyaaaah! How embarrassing!
Seliph: Heh... It isn’t exactly hard to see, Lover. I wish you two naught but happiness.
Lover: Thanks so much, Lord Seliph!

Seliph: And of course, Lover, you may go with Tristan. I’d hate to part the two of you even briefly.
Lover: Hm? You already know about us, Lord Seliph?
Seliph: It isn’t exactly hard to see, Lover. I wish you two naught but happiness.
Lover: Thank you so much, Lord Seliph!
^end 

Jeanne: Lord Seliph, I’m going to Agustria with my brother. 
Seliph: I admit this is a surprise, Jeanne. I assumed you would go to Leonster...
Jeanne: I know... But my work in Leonster’s done. I’ve got no regrets...
Seliph: I see... Take care, Jeanne. You deserve nothing but happiness.
Jeanne: And you too, Lord Seliph... 

Jamke’s son: I’ll be leaving for Verdane, Lord Seliph. 
Seliph: Verdane, you say? Ah, of course. Your father was Prince Jamke. I understand. From what I’ve heard, Verdane has been naught but ruins dominated by brigand clans, ever since the royal family collapsed.
Jamke’s son: So I’ve heard, sir. I don’t know how much good I can do by myself, but I have to try. Those bandits have run rampant long enough.
Seliph: Indeed! Verdane was my mother’s home, and my parents first met there as well. Jamke’s son, I entrust this task to you. Do all you can to save Verdane’s people.
Jamke’s son: Yes, Lord Seliph!
^start
Lover: I’m ready to go when you are, Jamke’s son!
Jamke’s son: I don’t think so, Lover. It’ll be far too dangerous to take you along. Don’t worry. I’ll be back for you, no matter what, once it’s all over.
Lover: Oh, no, I don’t think so! I’m going with you, and just try and stop me!
Jamke’s son: I’m sorry, Lover... You’re right. We’ll both save Verdane, together.	

Larcei: Wait up, Jamke’s son! I’m coming, too!
Jamke’s son: I don’t think so, Larcei. It’ll be far too dangerous to take you along. Don’t worry. I’ll be back for you, no matter what, once it’s all over.
Larcei: You’re joking, right? I’m Larcei of Isaach, and I’m just as much of a warrior as you are! I don’t care how much you want to. I’m not gonna let you go alone!
Jamke’s son: Hahaha... Yeah, you’re right. You’ll never have anything to fear from simple bandits, will you? Sorry about that. We’ll go together! Having you by my side’s all the courage I need!

Lover: And I’ll be right by your side, Jamke’s son.
Jamke’s son: I don’t think so, Lover. It’ll be far too dangerous to take you along. Don’t worry. I’ll be back for you, no matter what, once it’s all over.
Lover: But I can’t stand to sit back and wait for a return which may never come... What happens if you leave me behind and I never get to see you again...? I don’t want our love to end the same way Lord Sigurd’s and Lady Deirdre’s did!
Jamke’s son: I’m sorry, Lover... You’re right. We’ll both save Verdane, together.
^end 

Jamke’s daughter: I’ll be going to Verdane with Jamke’s son as well, Lord Seliph. 
Seliph: You will, Jamke’s daughter?
Jamke’s daughter: Yes. I want to help him restore our father’s beloved kingdom. There won’t be a single bandit left in Verdane once we’re through!

Faval: Well, Lord Seliph, I’m off to Jungby.
Seliph: Mm. Knowing Jungby is in your most capable hands will put my mind at ease.
Faval: ...I admit, sir, I couldn’t have seen all this coming in a thousand years. But finding out that my mom was Jungby’s Lady Bridget helped me find myself a purpose in life, and I know now what needs to be done. On this blessed bow of mine, Lord Seliph, I swear I’ll be with you every step of the way!
^start
Lover: Don’t forget what you swore to me!
Faval: Huh? What did I promise you again?
Lover: Oh, come on... You ALREADY forgot?!
Faval: Kidding, kidding! It was a joke! Sorry... Wow, that’s a terrifying look you’re giving me.
Lover: How was I supposed to know you’re joking?!

Larcei: So what about what you swore to me?
Faval: Huh? What did I promise you again?
Larcei: You’re kidding... You forgot ALREADY?
Faval: Kidding, kidding! It was a joke! Sorry... Wow, that’s a terrifying look you’re giving me.
Larcei: Can you blame me for not being sure?

Lover: And what about what you swore to me? 
Faval: Huh? What did I promise you again?
Lover: You can’t be serious... You’ve already forgotten?
Faval: Kidding, kidding! It was a joke! Sorry... Wow, that’s a terrifying look you’re giving me.
Lover: I didn’t think you were joking. What else was I supposed to do?

Lover: And what about what you swore to me? 
Faval: Huh? What did I promise you again?
Lover: You can’t be serious... You’ve already forgotten?
Faval: Kidding, kidding! It was a joke! Sorry... Wow, that’s a terrifying look you’re giving me.
Lover: There’s a good reason I wasn’t sure!
^end 

Seliph: And you as well, Patty?
Patty: Yep. No offense, but I can’t say I want to sit around her twiddling my thumbs. Besides, my brother’ll need my help!
Seliph: Once you’ve settled in, there’ll surely be no shortage of tasks to keep you busy. But I assure you, none of it will involve theft. A noble has no place robbing others.
Patty: Oh! How could you SAY that, sir?! I gave the thief thing up ages ago!
Seliph: Heh, my apologies. Well, Patty, take care.
Patty: You too, sir...

Patty: I’m off to Jungby now, Lord Seliph. 
Seliph: Ah, of course. You’re the heir to Jungby. ...Will you be okay?
Patty: Huh? Why, Lord Seliph, you’re not saying you think I’m nervous about this, are you?
Seliph: Er, no. That isn’t what I meant! I just-
Patty: I’ll be just fine, sir. I’m the daughter of the great Lady Bridget, after all! Sure, I don’t look the part, but when the going needs doing, I’ll go and do it! Just watch me go, sir!

Lester: Well, Lord Seliph, I’m off to Jungby.
Seliph: Mm. Knowing Jungby is in your most capable hands will put my mind at ease.
Lester: Jungby should’ve gone to Lady Bridget’s kids, but there’s not much choice now. I’ll do everything to restore Jungby where my mother, Aideen, couldn’t. And of course, Lord Seliph, I’ll promise that you, Grannvale’s new king, will always have my loyalty. 
^start
Lover: Don’t forget your promise to me!
Faval: I haven’t, of course! 
Lover: Just checking!
Faval: Lover, you’re kinda scaring me here. 
Lover: Oh, that’s just mean! And if you say much more of it, I don’t know WHAT I’ll do! Heh heh heh... 

Lover: And what of your promise to me?
Lester: I haven’t forgotten, of course!
Lover: Good. I thought you wouldn’t, Lester.
Lester: Lover, you’re kinda scaring me here.
Lover: Heh heh... Am I now?
^end 

Lester: I’m going back to Jungby as well, sir. 
Seliph: Mm. I know Jungby will need your might in the years to come, as will I.
Lester: Yes, sir. I want to help my cousin, just as my mother once helped my aunt, and I hope I can for the rest of my life.
Seliph: And you as well, Lover. You’re as close as him as they come, aren’t you?
Lover: Yep! I guess this means we’ll be around to visit you quite a bit, sir!

Seliph: And you as well, Lover. You’re as close as him as they come, aren’t you?
Lover: So I am, Lord Seliph. I’m glad we get the chance to keep working with you.

Seliph: Lana... My apologies...
Lana: ...
Seliph: I know you’re mad at me, Lana. Lester’s told me as much.
Lana: That’s because you’ve... No, it’s fine. I’ll be fine. I’m going home to Jungby now. Farewell, Lord Seliph...
Seliph: Lana....

Seliph: Lana... You’ll be inheriting the Jungby throne, will you not?
Lana: I will... I’ll admit I never even thought Jungby’s rule would be left to me. But... I’ll get to stay by your side and help you... And I’m so glad I can.
Seliph: We’ve always been together, haven’t we, Lana? ...Fate is an odd thing, I suppose.
Lana: It truly is...

Seliph: Headed for Freege, are you, Arthur?
Arthur: Yes, sir. Reptor and Blume’s crimes are beyond forgiveness, but Freege’s citizens can’t be blamed for their liege’s actions. I’ve got a duty to fill my mother’s shoes and guide the people where she no longer can.
Seliph: If anyone can do it, Arthur, it’ll be you. I’m glad you see peace is never born of hatred. I pray we’ll always be friends.
Arthur: Yes, sir!
^start
Lover: C’mon, Arthur, let’s go already! I’ve never been this bored in my life.
Arthur: Heh. Thought you’d say that, Lover. Okay, let’s get going.
Lover: Bye-bye, Lord Seliph! We’ll see you later... 

Lover: I think you’ve chatted long enough, Arthur. Lord Seliph has work to do as well, you know!
Arthur: Yeah, you’re right, Lover. Shall we head off, then?
Lover: Well, by your leave, Lord Seliph. Take care of yourself... 

Lover: I think you’ve chatted long enough, Arthur. Lord Seliph has work to do as well, you know!
Arthur: Yeah, you’re right, Lover. Shall we head off, then?
Lover: We’ll be leaving now, Lord Seliph. Take care of yourself... 
^end 

Seliph: And you’ll be accompanying Arthur, Tine?
Tine: I am. All I want is to be of help to my brother.
Seliph: You two are awfully close, aren’t you?
Tine: Mm, we are. I couldn’t possibly ask for a better brother...

Seliph: You’re Freege’s heir, are you not, Tine? I’m sorry. I know returning to Freege couldn’t possibly be easy for you...
Tine: No, it won’t... But for Mother’s sake, I mustn’t run away. I hope I’ll have your help in this as well, Lord Seliph.
Seliph: But of course. We’ll be with you every step of the way.

Seliph: Headed for Freege, are you, Amid?
Amid: Yes, sir. Reptor and Blume’s crimes are beyond forgiveness, but Freege’s citizens can’t be blamed for their liege’s actions. I’ve got a duty to fill my mother’s shoes and guide the people where she no longer can.
Seliph: If anyone can do it, Amid, it’ll be you. I’m glad you see peace is never born of hatred. I pray we’ll always be friends.
Amid: Yes, sir!
^start
Lover: C’mon, Amid, let’s go already! I’ve never been this bored in my life.
Amid: Heh. Thought you’d say that, Lover. Okay, let’s get going.
Lover: Bye-bye, Lord Seliph! We’ll see you later... 

Lover: I think you’ve chatted long enough, Amid. Lord Seliph has work to do as well, you know!
Amid: Yeah, you’re right, Lover. Shall we head off, then?
Lover: Well, by your leave, Lord Seliph. Take care of yourself... 

Lover: I think you’ve chatted long enough, Amid. Lord Seliph has work to do as well, you know!
Amid: Yeah, you’re right, Lover. Shall we head off, then?
Lover: We’ll be leaving now, Lord Seliph. Take care of yourself... 
^end 

Seliph: And you’ll be accompanying Amid, Linda?
Linda: I am. All I want is to be of help to my brother.
Seliph: You two are awfully close, aren’t you?
Linda: Mm, we are. I couldn’t possibly ask for a better brother...

Lex’s son: I’m going to Dozel, Lord Seliph. 
Seliph: Your father was Lord Lex, correct? I’m sure the people of Dozel eagerly await your return, Lex’s son.
Lex’s son: The likes of Langbalt and Dannan have tormented the people and stained House Dozel’s good name for too long. Now that my father is gone, it falls to me to heal the state’s wounds. 
Seliph: Mm. I entrust Dozel’s welfare to you. I pray you’ll be able to lend me your might in the years to come.
Lex’s son: Yes, Lord Seliph!
^start
Lover: Lex’s son, still chatting? C’mon, we should be hurrying!
Lex’s son: Lover? What do you mean?
Lover: Nothing’ll be a sadder sight than having to walk into Dozel while you’re still here. C’mon, you’ll thank me later!
Lex’s son: Heh, I suppose you’re right... 

Lover: Still busy chatting, Lex’s son? C’mon, we should be going already!
Lex’s son: Lover? What do you mean?
Lover: Is anything quite as sad as going home alone? I guess you should be thanking me for keeping your arm occupied!
Lex’s son: Heh, I suppose you’re right... 

Lover: Are you still chatting, Lex’s son? Shouldn’t we make haste for Dozel?
Lex’s son: Lover? What do you mean?
Lover: I’ll be going with you. I’d be too worried if I wasn’t with you...
Lex’s son: Ah, right... Thank you, Lover.
^end 

Lex’s daughter: I’m going to Dozel too, Lord Seliph.
Seliph: You as well Lex’s daughter? I see... You’re welcome to come by Belhalla once in a while for a visit. 
Lex’s daughter: Thank you, sir. I’ll take you up on that offer once Dozel is back to normal. 
Seliph: Take care of yourself, Lex’s daughter.
Lex’s daughter: And you as well, Lord Seliph... 

Johan: My liege! I owe you a debt among debts. 
Seliph: I leave Dozel’s care to you, Lord Johan.
Johan: Home shall hold only pain for me, yet return I must if I am to absolve my kin’s sins. I know yet not if my people could ever forgive me. 
Seliph: This war could never have been won if not for your strength, Johan. Your legacy is one of kindness. People everywhere know this well.
Johan: Your words honor me, my liege. I can only pray you shall someday forgive House Dozel.
Seliph: But of course, Johan. I hope both Grannvale and the world will greatly prosper from your might.
Johan: You shall always have my axe, my liege. I swear to you, the Grannvale throne shall have the undying loyalty of House Dozel. 
^start
Larcei: I hate to admit it, Johan, but that was actually quite the stirring speech! I guess that’s what you’ve always been good at.
Johan: Larcei, I...
Larcei: Heh... I know. I mean, I do love you, too, Johan. 
Johan: Ahh! I’ve never known such joy, Larcei! 

Lover: What an inspiring speech, Johan! Hah... Some things never change.
Johan: Lover, I... 
Lover: I know, Johan. I feel exactly the same way... 
Johan: Ahh! Bless you, Lover! I’ve never known such joy!

Lover: Wow, what a stirring speech, Johan. Hey, I guess it’s no surprise. You’ve always been great at those! 
Johan: Lover, I... 
Lover: Hee hee... I know. I love you too, Johan.
Johan: Ahh! Lover! 
^end 

Johalvier: So long, Seliph.
Seliph: I leave Dozel’s care to you, Lord Johalvier.
Johalvier: Facing my people ain’t gonna be easy, but one way or another, I’ve gotta atone for my dad’s crimes. Well, I’ve gotta try at least, don’t I? I really owe you one, Seliph.
Seliph: You truly are an odd one, Lord Johalvier. Your rough words hide a gentle spirit.
Johalvier: Heh, I guess. Talking like that never felt right, yeah? Good luck with everything, Seliph. I’ll see ya around.
^start
Lover: Don’t worry, Lord Seliph. Johalvier’s always been awkward about what really lies  beneath his act... 
Seliph: Hahaha, I thought as much. Do take care, Lover... And do take care of Johalvier.
Lover: Yes, sir. I suppose I can’t really afford to leave him be, can I? Rest assured, I’ll look after him. Take care as well, Lord Seliph!

Lover: No need to worry, Lord Seliph! Johalvier’s actually just really shy. That’s why he’s acting so tough.
Seliph: Hahaha, I thought as much. Do take care, Lover... And do take care of Johalvier.
Lover: Yep! I really don’t think leaving him alone’s a good idea, anyways! Don’t worry. I’ll take care of him. You take care of yourself, too, Lord Seliph!
^end 

Seliph: I take it you’re headed for Edda, Claude’s son?
Claude’s son: I am, sir. In the name of my father, Claude, I’ll breathe new life into Edda. 
Seliph: Saint Bragi’s prayers are strong indeed. I know your exalted prayers will bring peace to Grannvale and the world.
Claude’s son: Yes, sir!
^start
Lover: And you can leave the orphans to me! They need a mother in their life, after all. I’ll make sure they grow up safe and sound.
Claude’s son: Lover... Are you sure?
Lover: No need to worry, Claude’s son! The kids need my help and I won’t let them down. I’ll never quit on them.

Lover: And you can leave the children to me! I’ll be the mother that they never had, and I’ll make sure they all grow up safely.
Claude’s son: Lover... 
Lover: Heh, relax! I promise, I’m gonna do this right. I’ll take care of all the orphans just as well as if they were my own kids!

Lover: I’ll take care of the orphans, Claude’s son. I’ll do what their mothers no longer can and ensure they all have a good childhood.
Claude’s son: Lover... 
Lover: Don’t worry about a thing. I’ll love and take care of these children, just as much as if they were my own.
^end 

Seliph: You’re headed for Edda as well, Claude’s daughter?
Claude’s daughter: I am. I ought to visit the Edda convent, to properly farewell the war’s fallen...
Seliph: I see... I thought you might, Claude’s daughter. Be sure to pass my gratitude on to the spirits of the dead... Thank you.
Claude’s daughter: You take care as well, Lord Seliph. 

Seliph: You’re headed for Edda as well, Claude’s daughter?
Claude’s daughter: I am. I ought to visit the Edda convent, to properly farewell the war’s fallen... And Lover as well...
Seliph: I see... I thought you might, Claude’s daughter. Be sure to pass my gratitude on to the spirits of the dead... Thank you.
Claude’s daughter: You take care as well, Lord Seliph. 

Seliph: I take it you’re headed for Edda, Claude’s daughter?
Claude’s daughter: I am, sir. In the name of my father, Claude, I’ll breathe new life into Edda. 
Seliph: Saint Bragi’s prayers are strong indeed. I know your exalted prayers will bring peace to Grannvale and the world.
Claude’s daughter: Yes, sir!

Azelle’s son: Lord Seliph...
Seliph: I beg your forgiveness, Lord Azelle’s son. The task which now lies before you is the most painful of all.
Azelle’s son: No, sir. I’m all that's left of House Velthomer, and it’s my duty alone to atone for the many crimes of my kin. I know that’s what my father, Lord Azelle, would want as well.
Seliph: Azelle’s son, I can’t bring myself to hate Lord Arvis any longer. Knowing now he was but a sad victim of fate, I can only offer you my condolences.
Azelle’s son: Thank you so much, Lord Seliph... The Fire Emblem, House Velthomer’s royal crest, was once revered by people the world over as a symbol of justice. I’ll work tirelessly until the Emblem’s honor and good name are restored.
^start
Lover: And I’m going with you, Azelle’s son!
Azelle’s son: You will, Lover...?
Lover: Yep! I can’t just let you go alone! If we stick together, then all the pain in the world won’t keep us down!

Lover: I’ll go to Velthomer as well, Azelle’s son.
Azelle’s son: You will, Lover...?
Lover: Mm. I won’t let you face this alone. So long as we’re together, I know we can survive any hardship! 

Lover: I’ll go to Velthomer as well, Azelle’s son.
Azelle’s son: You will, Lover...?
Lover: Mm. I can’t just let you go alone, can I? So long as we’re together, I know we can endure most anything.

Lover: And I’m going with you, Azelle’s son!
Azelle’s son: You will, Lover...?
Lover: I can’t just let you go alone, can I? The world can throw all the painful stuff at us it wants! So long as we’re together, we’ll overcome anything!

Lover: I’ll go to Velthomer as well, Azelle’s son.
Azelle’s son: You will, Lover...?
Lover: Yeah. I can’t let you face this alone! So long as we’re together, I know we can survive just about anything!
^end 

Seliph: You are headed for Velthomer as well, Azelle’s daughter? Do take care of yourself.
Azelle’s daughter: Thank you. Say... If I ever get lonely, would you mind if I came to visit you? 
Seliph: You’ll be welcome anytime, of course. But remember, Velthomer’s future rests in both of your hands. Be sure to give its restoration all of your focus and might. 
Azelle’s daughter: Yes, sir! Leave it to me! 

Azelle’s daughter: Lord Seliph...
Seliph: I beg your forgiveness, Lady Azelle’s daughter. The task which now lies before you is the most painful of all.
Azelle’s daughter: No, sir. I’m all that's left of House Velthomer, and it’s my duty alone to atone for the many crimes of my kin. I know that’s what my father, Lord Azelle, would want as well.
Seliph: Azelle’s daughter, I can’t bring myself to hate Lord Arvis any longer. Knowing now he was but a sad victim of fate, I can only offer you my condolences.
Azelle’s daughter: Thank you so much, Lord Seliph... The Fire Emblem, House Velthomer’s royal crest, was once revered by people the world over as a symbol of justice. I’ll work tirelessly until the Emblem’s honor and good name are restored.

Oifey: Well, sire... I’m leaving for Chalphy now.
Seliph: What? Why, Oifey? Why?! I thought you would never leave my side! I... I still need you!
Oifey: No, sire... You will do a magnificent job ruling on your own. I know it. And whilst you do, it’ll be my duty to protect House Chalphy in your stead.
Seliph: Chalphy... I understand, Oifey. You are right, of course. I won’t be able to inherit its throne, which leaves you as the last bearer of the blood of Baldr who can claim it. I suppose there isn’t much choice...
Oifey: Everything will be alright, sire. I’ll always be watching over you, even from Chalphy.
Seliph: Oifey... To me, you will always be like the father I never had. You taught me all I know... How to strategize, how to live as a knight does... And how to be kind. You’ve done so much, and I could never thank you nearly enough....
Oifey: Sire... I, too, owe your father dearly for all he once did for me. When my parents died, Lord Sigurd took me into his home. He loved me just as if I were his own brother. And yet... I couldn’t even be by his side in his final moments... ... I was such a coward.
Seliph: Oifey... Please don’t cry... This is my fault, not yours...
Oifey: Sniff... My apologies, sire... You shouldn’t have seen that. Now, then... Please, sire...
Seliph: I know, Oifey... I know. You take care as well...
^start
Lover: Don’t worry about a thing, sir. Leave Oifey to me!
Seliph: Ah, right... You’re bound for Chalphy as well, Lover?
Lover: Yep. Oifey’s gone and run himself ragged. He needs rest, and lots of it. It’s up to me to make sure he gets a bit of quiet time.
Seliph: I couldn’t agree more. I trust you’ll take good care of Oifey, Lover.
Lover: Yes, Lord Seliph!

Lover: You can rest easy, Lord Seliph. Leave Oifey to me!
Seliph: Ah, right... You’re bound for Chalphy as well, Lover?
Lover: I am. Oifey is awfully fatigued, and is in dire need of rest. I want to ensure he’ll have a bit of peace and quiet. 
Seliph: I couldn’t agree more. I trust you’ll take good care of Oifey, Lover.
Lover: Yes, Lord Seliph!
^end 

Ced: This is it, sire. I’ll be taking my leave now.
Seliph: Destined for Silesse, then, Ced?
Ced: I am. I’ve left the Silessian people waiting long enough. I’ll be joining them in the effort to restore Silesse once I get home. I’ll give it nothing less than I have!
Seliph: I see. Well, if you’re lending your power to the cause, then I know Silesse is in most capable hands. Take care, Ced the Brave.
Ced: You too, sire!
^start
Seliph: Hm? I take it you’re going to Silesse as well, then, Lover?
Lover: Yeah, I’m going with Ced... 
Seliph: Well, congratulations. I pray you two will have many happy years together.
Lover: Thanks, sir!

Seliph: Hm? I take it you’re going to Silesse as well, then, Lover?
Lover: Mm. I’ll be accompanying Ced...
Seliph: Well, congratulations. I pray you two will have many happy years together.
Lover: Thank you, sir.
^end

Seliph: You’re headed for Silesse, then, Fee?
Fee: Yep! 
Seliph: Is Mahnya the pegasus in good health?
Fee: Only the best! 
Seliph: And the lady herself, Fee?
Fee: Of course! Raring to go! 
Seliph: Heh, that’s our Fee. 
Fee: Hang on, so if I weren’t so cheery, then I wouldn’t even be me anymore? Is that what you were trying to say, sir?
Seliph: Er... How did you guess? 
Fee: Hmph, that’s not very nice! Anyway... Bye, Lord Seliph! Take care of yourself! 

Hawke: This is it, sire. I’ll be taking my leave now.
Seliph: Destined for Silesse, then, Hawke?
Hawke: I am. I’ve left the Silessian people waiting long enough. I’ll be joining them in the effort to restore Silesse once I get home. I’ll give it nothing less than I have!
Seliph: I see. Well, if you’re lending your power to the cause, then I know Silesse is in most capable hands. Take care, Hawke the Brave.
Hawke: You too, sire!
^start
Seliph: Hm? I take it you’re going to Silesse as well, then, Lover?
Lover: Yeah, I’m going with Hawke... 
Seliph: Well, congratulations. I pray you two will have many happy years together.
Lover: Thanks, sir!

Seliph: Hm? I take it you’re going to Silesse as well, then, Lover?
Lover: Mm. I’ll be accompanying Hawke...
Seliph: Well, congratulations. I pray you two will have many happy years together.
Lover: Thank you, sir.
^end 

Seliph: You’re headed for Silesse, then, Femina?
Femina: Yep! 
Seliph: Is Mahnya the pegasus in good health?
Femina: Only the best! 
Seliph: And the lady herself, Femina?
Femina: Of course! Raring to go! 
Seliph: Heh, that’s our Femina. 
Femina: Hang on, so if I weren’t so cheery, then I wouldn’t even be me anymore? Is that what you were trying to say, sir?
Seliph: Er... How did you guess? 
Femina: Hmph, that’s not very nice! Anyway... Bye, Lord Seliph! Take care of yourself! 

Lewyn’s son: Well, Lord Seliph, thanks for everything. I’ll be going back to Silesse with Father now.
Seliph: I must admit, Lewyn’s son. I’m almost envious you have a father like Lewyn by your side. How nice that must be!
Lewyn’s son: It is. I’m so proud to be his son, sir. And someday, hopefully, I’ll be every bit the great man he is now.
^start
Lover: Lord Seliph! I’ll be going to Silesse with Lewyn’s son. 
Seliph: You will as well, Lover? That’s very reassuring. I pray you and Lewyn’s son will pool your might to aid Silesse’s people.
Lover: Got it! I’ll do my best!
Lewyn: Look after Lewyn’s son, okay, Lover? Silesse is both of yours to rule now. I’m not going back.

Lover: I’ll be accompanying Lewyn’s son back to Silesse, Lord Seliph.
Seliph: You will as well, Lover? That’s very reassuring. I pray you and Lewyn’s son will pool your might to aid Silesse’s people.
Lover: Yes, Lord Seliph!
Lewyn: Look after Lewyn’s son, okay, Lover? Silesse is both of yours to rule now. I’m not going back.
^end

Lewyn: Silesse is yours to rule now, Lewyn’s son. I’m not going back.
Lewyn’s son: Huh? What are you talking about, Father?! The war is over! Please... Please, you’ve got to come home!
Lewyn: No. My work there is done. I don’t belong on the throne. Silesse needs a fresh start with its leadership, just like everywhere else. What Silesse needs is you. It needs to be guided by your youthful hand.
Lewyn’s son: I don’t understand... Silesse needs you, too... And I need you. Please, Father... Please! Come home with me!
Lewyn: Settle down, Lewyn’s son. You’re embarrassing me here. You already know exactly why I’m doing this... Don’t you, Lewyn’s son?
Lewyn’s son: ...Father...

Lewyn’s daughter: Hold it right there, Father! What kind of sorry excuse is that?! Are you seriously saying you’re going to up and abandon us AGAIN? No, I don’t think so! Why exactly do you need to do this?
Lewyn: Lewyn’s daughter... Please... This is hard enough without you carrying on...
Lewyn’s daughter: ...Father...
Lewyn: ...That’s enough. There’s nothing left to say! Go! I leave Silesse’s fate to you...

Lewyn: Well, Seliph, I guess this is farewell for me as well. I’ve got a journey of my own to begin...
Seliph: Thank you, Lewyn... Thank you so much... You’ve done so much for us, the young generation. You’ve always guided us... From the bottom of our hearts, thank you.
Lewyn: I did only my duty, Seliph. I am the wind, a wind fated to guide the beating light of life. And this very light shines on within the hearts of every last one of you.
Seliph: I understand now... All my life, I’ve heard tales about how the dragonkin feared becoming entangled in the sorry affairs of mankind. But you were different... You guided us where your kin never would. So long as the world lives on, humanity will never forget your kindness.. Lewyn... No... A hero of a distant land... Forseti of the Wind...

@Narration 
At long last, Thracia has been unified. A region once swamped with countless small nations constantly warring among themselves, with the restoration of House Leonster and the downfall of the Thracian kingdom, the Thracian peninsula finally knows peace. 
And as the first ruler of this new Thracia, the people ardently desired for the throne to be taken by Leif/Altena.
At Leif’s behest, the old Thracia’s former lands were entrusted to his sister, Altena. Legends tell of Altena’s love for and dedication to the very soil that raised her, and this love never died so long as she lived.
The Thracian peninsula thus gave rise to a new realm: the Kingdom of New Thracia. 

The Kingdom of Isaach may have found its freedom from Imperial abuse the quickest, yet its people could not rest easy while its heir was absent fighting in the war. This changed with the final victory of the liberation army, and when (Shannan/Scáthach/Larcei) returned from battle, the people greeted their liege with raucous cheers. 
and others by his side to restore the land, they also strove for a new age of diplomacy and trade, seeking to build a wealthy nation. Isaach was once reviled by others as little more than a barbarous eastern land, but under the reign of (Shannan/Scáthach/Larcei), Isaach will grow like never before and shall one day be reborn as a mighty nation, every bit the equal of other realms.

The aftermath of Agustria’s civil war left it to be annexed by Grannvale, and so the land fell to harsh tyranny. After years of abuse, its people dearly wished for the rise of a unified nation, one led by House Nordion, heirs of the legendary hero Eldigan. And so the people eagerly welcomed the homecoming of (Ares/Dermott/Nanna). In (Ares/Dermott/Nanna), the people saw the very same aura Eldigan himself had borne in his youth. 
Under the reign of (Ares/Dermott/Nanna), Agustria will soon become Grannvale’s most crucial partner and will grow to be greater than ever before. 

Even at its peak, the Empire had shunned and ignored Verdane. Uninterested in seizing the region within its iron fist, it completely abandoned the old kingdom. Instead, Verdane was left to the mercy of constantly warring clans, and brigands ran rampant. Nobody had any hope of peace. Into the fray came (Jamke’s son/Jamke’s daughter), the child and heir of the heroic Prince Jamke, and his wife Jamke’s son’s lover, whose long-awaited return rallied the people’s spirits. Youths flocked to join this new battle. Within a year, the fight for Verdane’s reunification had come to an end, and (Jamke’s son/Jamke’s daughter) took their rightful throne. With the support of Grannvale and Agustria, (Jamke’s son/Jamke’s daughter) worked ceaselessly to rebuild the peaceful Verdane their grandfather, Batur, had once forged. Verdane is a land of natural beauty. Its verdant forests are Sigurd’s prayers... Its sparkling, crystal-clear water is Deirdre’s tears... And these are its people’s emblems of hope and faith...

Silesse had long dwelt under the empire’s cruel hand, and so (Lewyn’s son/daughter/Ced/Hawke/Fee/Femina) devoted their life to rebuilding the ruined land. A breathtaking land... A peaceful people... Lewyn had devoted his life to protecting the Kingdom of Silesse, and at long last, his decades of work had come to fruition.

In the royal capital of Belhalla itself, with overwhelming support from the public, Seliph was officially hailed as their king. The newly anointed King Seliph devoted himself to rebuilding his land and bringing peace to all, his goal nothing short of a prosperous world free of oppression and bigotry. And by his side, one would always find his loving, ever-smiling wife, Queen Seliph’s lover... his sister, Princess Julia, regarding his toil with the warmest of eyes... 
In ages to come, the people of Jugdral tell legends of a divine king of ages past. None shall ever forget his name: Seliph. 
/***EOF***/
@Opening 
King Chagall has fled Agusty's fall and moved his royal court to Madino Castle in the north. Honoring his promise to Eldigan, Sigurd allows Chagall his freedom and does not interfere. 

Sigurd adopts Agusty as his headquarters, and while his troops there recuperate, he persists in negotiating Agustria's return to governance by its own king. Despite his determination to restore Chagall's rule, his orders from Belhalla never change: to remain in Agusty and to govern its citizens. 

Scarcely six months have passed, and yet Grannvale's ruling administrators have already grown arrogant and have taken to abusing their power over Agustria for their own gain. Day by day, the Agustrian people grow ever wearier of Grannvale's actions. Before long, as he feared, Sigurd finds himself yet again caught in a new conflict. 

Reports abound of Chagall raising his army anew at Madino Castle, vying to reclaim his lost capital from Sigurd. 

Further north beyond Madino, the reviled pirates of Orgahil prepare themselves to sweep in and profit from the land's chaos. Belhalla's orders demand that Sigurd must maintain control of Agusty above all else. Sigurd's heart lies heavy in the face of the impending crisis. Southwest of Madino, Eldigan's forces hold the defenses of Fort Silvail. 

The looming battle for Agustria... A trial between friendship and loyalties. Before Sigurd looms a final battle in Agustria's north: a showdown fated to shape the course of Jugdral's history.

@Intro 
Chagall: Is the army ready to move in? Those fools couldn't possibly see this coming. Right, as arranged. Move out! This is our final chance to return Agusty to our control. Just look at them... Lingering in my kingdom, oh-so-carefree. ...I grow weary of them. They will pay dearly for this! Jacoban! Where's that lousy sellsword gotten to this time?!
Jacoban: Need me, do you?
Chagall: I've seen just how good a fighter you are. You're in charge of the castle defenses.
Jacoban: Yeah, I know... Might be a boring job, but you're payin' awfully well for it. Let's see 'em learn to fear my bolt sword.
Chagall: That's what I like to hear. Don't fail me.
Chagall: Now, Eldigan's still at Silvail, is he? Hm... How will he take this? I wonder...

Soldier: Milord, we have a problem! The Madino army appears to be preparing for battle!
Eldigan: What?! What is His Majesty thinking, doing something so rash? Blast... To think, we were so close to returning Agusty to him! Gah... I couldn't possibly fight Sigurd. What in the world can I do now...

Duval: Oi, cap'n! Looks like the mainland down south's gettin' ready for 'nother war. This is gettin' interestin'... This is our chance, I reckon, with nuthin' stoppin' us from fleecin' the villages. Both them armies'll be at each other's throats, so there'll be nobody interested in gettin' between us an' th' villages.
Brigid: Shut it, Duvall! I won't allow any petty thefts under my watch. I refuse to let us sink so low. Don't forget, we're heroic thieves. That's what the name of Orgahil now means to the world!
Duval: Bah! What self-respectin' pirate just lets the loot sit there an' does nothing?! The cap'n's gone soft!
Pizare: Now, now. Calm down, Duvall, me mate. I've got me a li'l idea. That wench struts aroun' like the boss, but she ain't really the ol' cap'n's sprog. The cap'n jus' found 'er lost when she as a tiny thing an' raised 'er as 'is own. She still took over when 'e died, but little she knows she ain't really his brat. She ain't the real boss, so there's nuffin' t'worry 'bout. Now, let's go 'elp ourselves to sum treasure!

Oifey: Dire news, sire! King Chagall's army has struck, and they have the castle surrounded!
Sigurd: What?! That fool... We were so close to finally withdrawing from Agustria. There's no sense in attacking us now! Where in blazes is Eldigan...
Oifey: That isn't all, sire. It appears that pirates from Orgahil are attacking amidst the confusion.
Sigurd: Is that so... I suppose we've no choice, then. Ready everyone for battle.
Deirdre: My love... You're about to fight again, aren't you?
Sigurd: I'm afraid so. I'm sorry, Deirdre, but you mustn't come with me this time. Seliph is but a newborn, and he needs you.
Deirdre: Yes, dear...
Sigurd: You needn't look so anxious, Deirdre. I'll be back before long. I promise. Shannan, I've a favor to ask of you. Would you look after Deirdre and Seliph, please?
Shannan: Of course! Don't worry about a thing.
Sigurd: Ha! As spirited as ever, Shannan. At the very least, Deirdre, he ought to keep you in good cheer. Don't worry about a thing, Deirdre. I'll be back for you. I promise.
Deirdre: Milord...

@Battle 
Knight: We're not involved in this battle, on Lord Eldigan's orders. Move along.

Oifey: King Chagall is nowhere to be found, sire.
Sigurd: I see... He must have fled to Castle Silvail, Eldigan is still posted there, after all. His Cross Knights are the last remains of Agustria's army. At this rate, all should be well if we can subdue them, but...
Oifey: Sire, we have a visitor. Father Claud of Edda has just arrived.
Sigurd: Father Claud?! See him in, please.
Claud: It's been a long time, Lord Sigurd. We need to talk. I regret to say that I bring dreadful news from the fatherland.
Sigurd: What is it, Your Grace? What in the world could have happened?
Claud: Prince Kurth is dead. Somebody murdered him en route from Isaach.
Sigurd: What?! This can't be... Who could have done this?
Claud: Lord Byron was once constantly by His Highness's side... Yet, ever since his murder, he has been nowhere to be found. I regret to say this, but... As it stands, Lord Byron - your father - is the prime suspect.
Sigurd: Wh-what?! That's impossible!
Claud: I regret to say that there's been naught but horrid rumors in Grannvale lately. Among them are those which allege that you and your father worked in concert to assassinate the prince... Alas, His Majesty's anguish at the affair has rendered him dreadfully ill.
Sigurd: My father was already the prince's closest confidant. What could he have possible gained from the prince's demise?! Surely, shouldn't Reptor, Langobalt, and the others who opposed the prince be the likely culprits?
Claud: I am of the same mind, but we've no evidence tying either to the crime. And Reptor and his minions currently hold a great sway over the royal court.
Sigurd: What about Lord Arvis, His Majesty's aide? Do you know where he stands on this?
Claud: I cannot say for sure. He seems to hold no enmity toward you, but I am loath to consider him an ally...
Sigurd: Hm... I'm worried for my father. If I could, I'd head home now and do what I can to help, but my orders haven't changed. I still need to hold Agustria. Please, Your Grace... Do you have any idea what I should do?
Claud: I am on my way to the Tower of Bragi, on the island to the north-west of here. As an heir to the great Saint Bragi, if I pray at our sacred tower, then the truth shall be revealed to me alone. With this knowledge, I can convince His Majesty of Byron's innocence. You needn't worry, Lord Sigurd.
Tailtiu: Claaaaaude! C'mon, let's go! Stop chewing off the poor man's ear. I'm getting bored here.
Sigurd: Hm? Aren't you Tailtiu of House Friege? What are you doing with Father Claud?
Tailtiu: Wouldn't you worry if I left him to wander all on his lonesome? Somebody's got to protect him.
Sigurd: But you're Duke Reptor's daughter, so...
Tailtiu: I just can't wrap my head around Father's schemes, y'know? Besides, I love the priest!
Claud: Gods, give me strength to cope with this child... Anyway, I'll rendezvous with your group once I've learned the truth. I pray we'll both return home this day.
Sigurd: As do I, Father Claud. As do I. I can't thank you enough.

Deirdre: Shannan, did you hear the news? Sigurd has captured Madino Castle. I... I need to see him again!
Shannan: Deirdre, no! I can't let you do that. It's still too dangerous to go out there now, and Seliph still needs you!
Deirdre: I know. I want you to look after Seliph while I'm gone.
Shannan: No way! I'm just a kid. I can't look after a baby all by myself.
Deirdre: I won't be long. I promise. Please, Shannan... I implore you...
Shannan: Okay, fine. I'll look after him. Just be careful out there and get back here as soon as you can, okay?
Deirdre: Thank you, Shannan. I'm sorry, Seliph. I'll be back for you right away.
Manfroy: Sigyn's daughter... I've found you at last...
Deirdre: Oh? Who are you? Wait... How do you know my mother?
Manfroy: Kehehehe... The day of your rebirth is upon us. Through my black magic, the slate of your life will be cleansed, paving the way for your true husband... Your fate was written the day you were born. There is no use in fighting destiny.
Deirdre: Wh-what are you doing?! Stop it! No!! ...Aaaah... Sig... u... r...

Chagall: And just what do you think you are doing, Eldigan?! If you hadn't dawdled away your day here, then perhaps we wouldn't have lost Madino! Ah, but that's part of your plan, isn't it?! You're part of their plot to destroy Agustria, traitor!
Eldigan: Your Majesty... How could you say that?
Chagall: What's this? Do you dare to be displeased? To think, you've forgotten my father's favor, all to idly stall for time... You're a disgrace to the knighthood!
Eldigan: There's nothing more I can do to convince you... Very well, Your Majesty. My men and I will move out post-haste. I am proud to be a paladin of Agustria. If I must die, it shall be with sword in hand! By your leave, Your Majesty.

Eldigan: This is it, men. It's time for us to enter the fray... Perhaps for the last time. I count myself the luckiest commander there is for your years of loyalty to me. The fatherland's fate hinges on this final battle. Do not let Agustria down. Cross Knights! MOVE OUT!
Chagall: Eldigan's finally moved out, has he? Pompous twit... The rest of you, fortify the defenses! I'm in command now!

Sigurd: Eldigan, please! Lay down your sword! I don't want to fight you! I still have every intention of returning Agusty to Chagall! All I need is a little more time, I swear!
Eldigan: ...Sigurd. I'm sorry, but I grow weary of these excuses. We stand now as two knights on the battlefield, sword to an honorable duel. Draw, Sigurd! So long as I wield the demon blade, Mystletainn, I won't be the one to fall this day!

Sigurd: W... Why... Why did this happen? Why couldn't we save Eldigan?! Has this damned war been in vain all along...
Oifey: I'm sorry, sire, but there was nothing you could have done. I know it hurts, but... For now, the best we can do is work to realize Eldigan's wishes, and give the Agustria people the peace they deserve.

Chagall: Travant! I trust your wyvern rider unit is ready?
Travant: You can rest assured, Chagall. We'll deliver on your expectations.
Chagall: Hmph. I suppose even these common sellswords ought to do a better job for me than all of my worthless servants... Don't you dare let me down!
Papillon: Pick up the pace! Agustria's right ahead! Our targets are the knights of Grannvale. Take your fill of battle! Sear the name of Thracia into the memories of this land!

Travant: Ugh... Papillon failed, did he? That does it. It's time to withdraw. I refuse to fall with this flaming wreck of a country. Heh, farewell, King Chagall... You fool.

Sigurd: Eldigan...
Oifey: Sire... I know this is hard, but please, you mustn't lose heart just yet. By the way, Shannan has just arrived from Agusty. He'd like a word with you, sire.
Sigurd: Shannan?
Shannan: Sigurd! I'm sorry... I'm so, so sorry!
Sigurd: What's happening, Shannan? Why are you crying?
Shannan: Deirdre's gone! She left the castle and was looking to talk to you, but she never returned. I'm sorry! I failed to protect her...
Sigurd: What?! This can't be happening! And Seliph... Shannan, what about my son?
Shannan: I've got Seliph with me. See? Here he is. But Deirdre...
Sigurd: I see... Shannan, this isn't your fault. Don't worry about it. We'll find her. No matter what it takes, I'll find her.
Shannan: B-but, I... I should've tried harder to stop her! I'm so sorry, Sigurd!
Sigurd: Deirdre... Where could you be...

Duvall: Cap'n! Big news! Agustria's lost th' war! S'only a matter of time b'fore them Grannvale guys're bangin' down our doors too, eh? What d'ya say?
Brigid: Damn it, Duvall! The only reason they're coming is because you lot all went pillaging, against my orders! You've got nobody but yourself to blame!
Duvall: Keh, enough! I can't take yer arrogance anymore! Shut it an' open yer ears! Ya actually ain't the daughter o' the late cap'n, y'know. Yer just some li'l girl what the boss found, cryin' alone in this ship we raided. Th'boss jus' picked ya up an' raised ya 'imself. 'Fore we knew it, ya'd all grown up an' were bossin' us all 'round, all nonsense-like!
Brigid: W-what?! I... that's...
Duvall: But yer li'l act's worn its welcome out. No point keepin' ya 'live, eh?
Brigid: Damn it all... You really think you clowns can take me that easy?!
Duvall: Get 'er, boys! Kill 'er quick-like! Don't let 'er escape! Pizare, yer in charge o' the boys. Go raise a li'l hell over 'n Agustria! I'll be waitin' back at th' castle.
Pizare: Aye, boss!
Pizare: Righ', raise the bridge! Agustria's all ours!

Tailtiu: Claaaaaude! C'mon, c'mon, c'mon! Aren't' you done praying already? Just look around! There'll be pirates all over us if we don't get moving!
Claud: Be at peace, Tailtiu. This was quite the fruitful journey! Lord Bragi has answered my prayers and revealed to me the truth. It is precisely as I had thought. Not to mention, I even found House Edda's long-lost sacred heirloom within the tower: the staff of Valkyria. See? This is it.
Tailtiu: What, that grubby little cane?
Claud: ...Tailtiu, please. Do try to mind your manners. This is a legendary magical staff with the power to restore life to the deceased. It is usable only be the direct descendants of Saint Bragi. That is to say, me alone.
Tailtiu: Huh. So what you're saying is, with this rod you could bring my sweet old grandma back to life?
Claud: Alas, most likely not. Valkyria is limited in many particular ways, and so cannot be used on just any lost soul. You see, all of mankind is born bearing a life force called quintessence, which-
Tailtiu: Yaaawn... Er, what's that? You lost me. Why're you still talking about this, anyway? We've still gotta get outta here!
Claud: Ah, of course. Let us go.

@End 
Sigurd: Good. We've subdued the pirate castle. Oifey, would you please gather our troops here? Now that this is all over, I'd like to ensure that everyone's alright.
Oifey: At once, sire.
Langobalt: Is the army ready? Good. All units, move in! Apprehend the traitor Sigurd and his cohorts! Seize these vile allies of Byron, accomplices to his murder of Kurth and his bid to take over the kingdom! It is the will of His Majesty! No mercy for enemies of the state!
Reptor: Kehehe... Oh, Langobalt. Such audacity! To think, he personally put an end to that miserable prince and nearly killed Byron for putting up a fight... I've never seen such a bold ploy! And with Arvis using His Majesty's trust, it all worked flawlessly! Convincing the king of anything is hardly a challenge, but to succeed with a tale of this scale takes quite the storyteller... And here we are, the entirety of House Chalphy framed for the crime! Heh heh... Our victory is all but assured. The throne of Grannvale shall be mine, one way or another. I'll leave no pest who dares interfere with me alive...
Sigurd: What in blazes is this?! I'm a traitor now, and a Grannvale legion now waits at our doorstep to arrest me?!
Oifey: Sire, and to think, the war here was over at long last, and you were about to go and search for Deirdre.
Sigurd: Gah... How could His Majesty have fallen for Reptor's lies? How could he possibly believe that my father, of all people, would kill Prince Kurth?! Aah... If only Father Claud had gotten back to the capital before they struck... Why?! Why is this happening?! I fought a pointless war, I let Eldigan die, and now this! What have I been fighting for all along?!
Oifey: Sire...
Annand: Lord Sigurd, I presume? I am Annand, a knight in the service of Silesse. Queen Rahna bade my corps and I to come and retrieve you. We invite you and your subordinates to retreat with us to Silesse, until your good name has been cleared in Grannvale.
Sigurd: ...Queen Rahna of Silesse, you say? Why is Silesse willing to give aid to an alleged traitor like me?
Annand: Please, sir. Time is of the essence. The Grannvale assault is sure to begin at any moment now. My pegasus knights will escort you across the sea to safety in Silesse.

@Visit 
Politician: Oh? Here to help, are ya? Huzzah! The village is saved! We can't thank ya enough, but mayhap this magic staff'll help ya out. They call it a Restore staff. If yer allies've been put t'sleep or silenced, one cast of this staff'll get 'em back on their feet. This oughta be a big help for ya.

Young woman: Ah... the Cross Knights. Lord Eldigan's elite knightly battalion. Their might is legendary, and none in Jugdral can even compare to them. Actually... My boyfriend is a Cross Knight! Hee hee... amazing, isn't it? Don't be shy. Drink up! Well, how 'bout that? Feel the might swellin' in yer muscles! Oughta make yer work out there so much easier.

Young woman: Sniff... I can't believe it. My boyfriend died in this blasted war. Damn the Grannvale army... No, no... Damn King Chagall! This is all his fault!

Old man: Oho! Glad to see ya've come. I got this 'ere sword for ya in 'preciation. They call it the wingslayer. It's enchanted to be lethal to sky-riders. If it flies, this sword'll bring it down. 'Course, if ya can't use it, sell it!

Man: No matter how much I think about it, I just don't get why the Orgahil pirates have so suddenly turned on us like this. We could've sworn that boss of theirs was a good lass... Brigid or something, was it?

Old woman: Oh, it's so nice to see visitors! How 'bout a little somethin' for yer troubles? Here, take a draught of our secret medicine.

Young man: Hey, be careful out there! Rumor has it that King Chagall's got the infamous Thracian wyvern riders on his payroll. Don't think there's been a war lately where someone or other didn't hire 'em. They're like a pack of hyenas descendin' on fresh prey: brutal and indiscriminate. Nothin' survives in their wake...

Woman: We're so glad to see you! Here, have a quick sip of our local special brew. For generations, it's made us all hardier!

Woman: Ugh. I can't stand people like you who've nothin' better to do than start more wars! Why are you even here? We've absolutely nothin' to do with Agustria or Grannvale! Look. If you've really gotta fight, take it somewhere else, you thoughtless sod.

@Battle-Talk 
%Lex,Ayra
Lex: Ayra! Hey there.
Ayra: Sigh... What do you want, Lex?
Lex: Sheesh! Courteous as ever, aren't you?
Ayra: Look, get to your point, whatever it may be. I've better things to do than waste time on you.
Lex: Hold on. I've got a little gift here. I thought of you the moment I saw it.
Ayra: You can foist it on some other woman. I've no use for such trinkets.
Lex: Heh... Not even something like this?
Ayra: Oh? ...Wait! That's-
Lex: Ah, good! You're well acquainted with the famous brave sword, then.
Ayra: I never thought I'd see a real brave sword! Never have I seen a blade so beautiful...
Lex: Glad you like it! It's yours. I guess I'll see you around, Ayra.
Ayra: Er, Lex! Wait a moment!
Ayra: Oh...

%Holyn,Ayra
Holyn: Hey, Ayra! This is for you. Here.
Ayra: Isn't this a brave sword? Why me, though? Shouldn't you be wielding this yourself?
Holyn: This thing's only gonna get harder from here, yeah? You burn through blades so fast you could do with a spare or two. Look after yourself out here, okay? One day I might not be here to watch your back.
Ayra: Holyn... Thank you. I promise I'll put it to good use.

@Boss-Talk
%Lachesis,Eldigan 
Lachesis: Brother, stop! It's me, Lachesis! This pointlessness has gone on long enough! Your actions are utterly baffling! Would you really betray Sigurd, your friend? Is this what you call a knight's pride?! Please, brother! Believe in Sigurd. Give him even the tiniest amount more time to finish his job. We don't need to fight.
Eldigan: Lachesis... Look, don't cry. Fighting is my only choice. Please don't make this harder than it already is. His Majesty's death will spell the death of Agustria, too, and I cannot allow that.
Lachesis: That isn't true! Everything hinges on Chagall laying down his arms. Sigurd never had any interest in fighting, and has even less interest in continuing if you stop. Brother... Please. You lead the Cross Knights! Chagall simply cannot ignore your counsel!
Eldigan: ...You're right, Lachesis. I'll try and persuade His Majesty, one more time. If I must risk my life, I'd rather risk it to stop this blasted war than to fight my friend. Any knight would do the same. Lachesis... here. This sword is for you.
Lachesis: Isn't this an earth sword?! ...Brother, you can't be-
Eldigan: This is a last memento, in case I... I'm sorry, Lachesis. You must survive!
Lachesis: W-wait! Stop! Don't go, Eldie!

Eldigan: Your Majesty, please order a retreat! There's no use in continuing this fight. Agusty shall be returned to Your Majesty someday, but it must happen peacefully.
Chagall: Eldigan! How dare you abandon the battle to spout such nonsense! You couldn't hide your true colors forever, traitor! Men! Seize this... this worm! Off with his head! Humiliate him! Parade his shame before the world!
Eldigan: I... this was all in vain... This spells Agustria's doom-
Chagall: Tch, enough! Accept your death quietly, traitor! Finish him! Do it, right here, right NOW!
Eldigan: Lachesis...

@Battle-Talk 
%Ethlyn,Quan
Ethlyn: Pardon me, dear... But I think I owe you an apology.
Quan: Eh? What's happened, Ethlyn? By the look of it, it must be grave indeed...
Ethlyn: Here. Take this.
Quan: A spear? ...What?! I-isn't this Gáe Bolg?! Why do you-
Ethlyn: Your lord father entrusted it to me, Quan. He thought it prudent for you to have it at hand, in case our battles grew too fierce.
Quan: Even just holding it, I've seldom felt so strong! Why did you wait till now, though?
Ethlyn: With the spear, your lord father also passed onto me its tale... I'm so sorry...
Quan: ...Aye. Gáe Bolg bears the baggage of a truly sad legend. But that is all it is: a legend.
Ethlyn: But-
Quan: Ethlyn, trust me. Triumph is within our grasp this day. I'll not fall victim to an old myth. I'll not let it stop me from returning home. Our dear little Altena still awaits us, and I'll not allow some fairy tale to disappoint her.
Ethlyn: Yes... Quan, no matter what happens... We'll never lose each other... Right?
Quan: Ah, you're concerned about Deirdre, aren't you... There's nothing to worry about. It won't be long until we find her.
Ethlyn: Yes... I want to believe she'll be okay, too. I wish I could believe it. But...
Quan: Ethlyn? Come now! Dry your tears. Do you truly feel so bad about this?
Ethlyn: I... Yes... Knowing th-that Sigurd and Deirdre may never meet again... Th-they love each other so... so much... Why, Quan... Why did this happen to them?!
Quan: Ethlyn...

%Brigid,Sigurd
Sigurd: Are you holding up okay, Brigid?
Brigid: Huh? Who're you? Wait... How do you know my name?!
Sigurd: The villagers told me of a woman who leads the pirates of Orgahil, and of her devotion to aiding the poor and weak. That would be you, correct?
Brigid: You must be that Grannvale man... Sigurd, right? Guess this is it. Come on. Just get it over with.
Sigurd: Ahahaha! Oh no, you're mistaken! I'm certain not here to kill you. I just want to talk to you, Brigid. I'd like you to ally with us. We'd love to add your strength to our own, to help us better fight the pirates. What say you?
Brigid: Wait. You really want me, of all people?
Sigurd: Certainly! You'd be a tremendous asset.
Brigid: You're a strange little man, Sigurd...

%Midir,Brigid
Midir: ...Lady Aideen?
Brigid: Huh? Who're you? You don't look familiar.
Midir: Oh, sorry! You're not her. My mistake. But then, that must make you...
Brigid: What's this you're mumbling about? Speak up, you weird little man!
Midir: Er... May I ask your name?
Brigid: I'm Brigid.
Midir: Brigid... You're gorgeous...
Brigid: Excuse me?! You've gotta be joking!
Midir: I must be dreaming... There's another one... And she's even more beautiful!
Brigid: Ugh... That's it!

%Aideen,Brigid
Aideen: Pardon me, but are you not... Yes! It is you! My sister! Brigid! I am Aideen, your sister! Surely you recall me?
Brigid: What? How do you know my name? Hang on... You look just like me! Aideen, huh... It sounds kinda familiar... But where from?
Aideen: Brigid, listen well. I am your twin sister! We lost you to pirates years ago, when you were just five years old. I've searched for you for years. I never lost hope that we would meet again.
Brigid: This is all so sudden... No. Weird feelings like this aren't enough! I need proof!
Aideen: Proof, you say? Here. Draw this bow.
Brigid: Huh? Okay, that's a nice bow and all, but what's it gotta do with anything? Guess I'll humor you. So I draw it and- ...Whoa! W-what's going on?! The hell is this...? I... What's this weird feeling boiling within me... Are these memories? Ah... my heart is on fire... Aideen? Yes... I remember now! You're Aideen... my sister.
Aideen: Oh, thank the gods! You remember! That bow is your birthright, Brigid. It is Yewfelle, the sacred bow of Jungby. Legends tell that the exalted weapons of this land, such as this one, can only be wielded by a single heir per generation. For House Jungby and Yewfelle, that rightful heir is you, Brigid. I trust this proof will suffice?
Brigid: Oh, Aideen... Come here... Let me get a good look at you... How's our father doing? And our brother... Andorey, right?
Aideen: I've so much to tell you, too... Brigid... My sister.

%Claud,Sigurd
Claud: Lord Sigurd! I apologize for the wait.
Sigurd: Father Claud, you're safe! We heard about how you ended up amidst all those pirates. Everyone was so worried.
Claud: I'm glad Tailtiu was close at hand. We may not have survived, if not for her magic. More importantly, Lord Sigurd, my prayers to Saint Bragi were answered.
Sigurd: You have the truth of all this, then?
Claud: That I do. As I thought, Duke Reptor is behind all of this. On his orders, it was Duke Langobalt who killed Prince Kurth. The two then successfully framed your father, Lord Byron, for the crime.
Sigurd: Just as I thought...
Claud: The pair's treachery runs deeper still. The murder of Isaach's King Mananan was also the handiwork of Duke Reptor. He feared a peaceful end to the war would end the sole excuse for the conquest of Isaach, so he secretly had the king killed.
Sigurd: Is that so... Reptor's grubby hands are all over this mess...
Claud: Not quite. In the shade of his avarice, there's something else at work... Something unsettling and terrifying. Not even Lord Bragi could scry this evil presence, obscured by its power as it is.
Sigurd: An evil presence? Could it be that dark priesthood... Wait! What of my father, Claud?
Claud: Lord Byron yet lives, but is injured and weak. I fear he is not long for this world...
Sigurd: Father... This can't be happening...
Claud: I'll hasten back to the capital. His Majesty needs to hear the truth. Lord Sigurd, for the time being, stay here and restrain yourself from rash action.
Sigurd: Understood. I can't thank you enough, Father Claud. I beg of you, do everything you can. Save my father and his good name.
Claud: Our fates lie with the mercy of the gods...

@Battle 
Dew: Oh, whoa! This is that Tower of Bragi place, isn't it? Hee hee! Got a good thiefy feeling about this one! Let's see what it's got...
Dew: Mmm? Nope, nothin' over here. Over there, maybe? ...Aww, man! What a borin' little dump.
???: ...Who... Who are you...
Dew: Huh?!
???: ...State your business...
Dew: Heh, maybe if I pretend I can't hear 'em...
???: How dare you... defile this sacred ground... ...BEGONE!
Dew: Kyaaa! S-sorry! Please don't hurt me!
Dew: Hah... hah... What just happened?! ...Hang on. A sword? What's it doin' sitting around a place like this? Eh, who cares? Guess I'm gettin' something outta this after all!

@Boss 
Jacoban: Keh... Taste my bolt sword!

Jacoban: S-such a shame...

Eldigan: Those of you who wish not to fall prey to Mystletainn... Stay clear of me, lest your life end on the demon blade!

%Sigurd,Eldigan
Eldigan: Sigurd... Never did I suspect our blades would someday cross. ...Yet we are knights. This was always our fate.
Sigurd: E-Eldigan! Wait!!

%Lachesis,Eldigan
Eldigan: Lachesis, stop! I will not fight you!

@Boss
Eldigan: Agustria... I've failed you... Forgive... me...

Chagall: H-how dare you! I am the King of Agustria! You dare show me such disrespect?! Damn it all... I'll show you the penalty for such offense: death!

%Sigurd,Chagall
Chagall: Sigurd! Feel the full force of your months of humiliation of me!
Sigurd: King Chagall, you've done naught but murder countless innocents. ...And Eldigan... You're as foul as they come!
Chagall: Silence, you fool! You understand nothing of me! You die, Sigurd, here and now!

%Lachesis,Chagall
Chagall: Hmhmhm... You're far too late, girl. Eldigan is already long dead.
Lachesis: You... You pig! You butchered my brother! You will not get away with this!

@Boss
Chagall: My... My Agustria...

Papillon: Heh... Allow me to teach you the terror of the Thracian wyvern riders!

Papillon: Thracia... Glory to... urgh...

Pizare: Them Grannvale guys, huh? Hold still an' let me teach ya t'fear the pirates o' Orgahil!

Pizare: D-damn... Th-the pirates o' Orgahil... Never lose... do we?

Duvall: Ugh, me men're jus' as useless as always! Damn all y'all!

Duvall: N-no... Damn it all...

%Brigid,Duvall
Duvall: Geh! Yer still clingin' t'life, wench?! Damn yer stubbornness!
Brigid: Duvall! You'll pay through the nose for your treachery!
/***EOF***/
@Opening 
Word of the first victory of Prince Seliph and his liberation army quickly spreads far and wide, inspiring courage anew in the Empire's victims. Still more uprisings erupt across Jugdral, but once again, precious few are properly organized and are easily crushed, and the death toll climbs ever higher... 

Leonster, a kingdom in the Thracian Peninsula... Prince Leif, the son of Quan, had raised an army with the aid of the knight Finn, but they have suffered a devastating loss before King Blume's vast hordes and are stranded in hostile ground. 

Before Seliph lies the Yied Desert, ruled by the Loptyrian Ctuzof from the Yied Shrine; the oasis city of Darna, governed by the ex-merchant Bramsel and the captain of his sellsword army, Jabarro; and Fort Melgen, guarded by Prince Ishtore and the renowned General Liza. King Blume himself, the son of the late Duke Reptor, awaits at the capital city of Alster with his niece, the mage Tine. 

In Rivough, Seliph and the warriors of his liberation army now prepare themselves to embark on a journey and come to the aid of their allies in far-away Leonster. Each warrior sets aside their worries as, under Seliph's leadership, they prepare for the new battle on their horizon.

@Intro 
Leif: Finn, what's the situation? Any word from the other division yet?
Finn: ...We've failed, milord. Every last soldier in the Alster raid is dead. This is a crippling blow to our army. We've lost most of our might in one fell swoop.
Leif: This can't be happening... I thought this was our big chance... Was all of this useless all along? Damn it all! I'll strangle Blume himself with my bare hands!
Finn: Please calm yourself, milord! This isn't the end quite yet. I've just had a word with King Lewyn. He's sending Prince Seliph's liberation army to back us up. Until then, no matter what, milord, we must endure the siege.
Leif: Prince Seliph, you say... He's the son of my father's old friend Sigurd, and of Empress Deirdre, right? I pray we can meet him soon... Perhaps if we merge our efforts with his, we'll have a better chance of protecting people from the Empire.
Nanna: That's right, Leif! Besides, if we just let ourselves lose now, wouldn't your men's death's all be in vain? I think we should abandon the castle for now, and seek refuge near that western church.
Leif: Mm, you're right... I suppose we don't have much of a choice now. Very well. Our priority now is to play this out defensively for the time being. Until Prince Seliph gets here, we must endure...

Blume: What's your problem now?! Can't you capture even as worthless a castle as this? Are you worms taking this seriously?
General: Y-yes, milord... The thing is, though, the enemy is proving to be of a resilient sort. We're struggling to breach their defenses.
Blume: Buffoons, all of you! Do you really think I want to hear excuses? I want Leonster seized! No more delays! If you waste any more time on this, then we'll have to contend with those Isaachian mongrels as well!
General: Y-yes, milord! We will strike immediately, milord!

Patty: Hooboy, those rumors weren't kidding! That place was full to the brim with treasure. Been a long time since I've had a haul like this! But I can't afford to dawdle now. Still gotta get out of here, and quick...
Shannan: Hey, excuse me! Hand that sword over. You can keep everything else, but I need the sword.
Patty: Where do you think you get off, trying to take somebody else's hard-earned goods? Do you have any idea how tough it was to get my hands on this sword? If you want it, come and get it, nincompoop! 
Shannan: W-wait!

Ctuzof: What? Thieves have plundered our treasury? And they absconded with Balmung?! You fools! Go seize them! Now!
Dark mage: Y-yes, Your Grace... But, er, Your Grace... Surely a master of dark magics of your caliber could crush common thieves such as these with a single blow, even from here?
Ctuzof: I've misplaced my Book of Fenrir... My men are scouring the shrine to find it, but so far it has yet to emerge...
Dark mage: Understood, Your Grace. In that case, my clan and I will take a few mercenaries and pursue them. We swear to you, Your Grace, that we will have the treasure back where it belongs post-haste!

Seliph: So the route to Leonster requires that we cross this vast desert, yes?
Lewyn: Yeah... The Yied Shrine's the real problem here, as it's controlled by the Loptyrian Order. The Order's fell mages infest the desert, mercilessly assaulting anyone they find in it. People've taken to calling the region the Desert of Death... A fitting name, really.
Seliph: I can only imagine how awfully travellers struggle here! I wonder... Perhaps it'd be possible to seize the Shrine from the Order.
Lewyn: Heh, I thought you'd never ask. There's always a way, but this one won't be easy. We may need to make sacrifices.
Seliph: So be it. At this point we've little choice. Not to mention, Shannan is likely still in the desert... For now, let's focus on taking control of Yied . All else will begin there!

@Battle 
Soldier: Milord, we've received word that the Isaachian rebels are on the move.
Bramsel: Isaachian rebels? Ah, the ones led by that brat... Celice, was it? Or Serlis? Something like that. Heh... Interesting. Very interesting, indeed! The Empire's put a hefty price on that boy's head. Let's make sure we're the ones to rake in that bounty, shall we? Keep our border locked down for the time being. The best option is to let them run themselves ragged, leaving them wide open to our strike! Instruct Commander Jabarro to put his squad on standby. His services will be needed in short order!

Lene: Hey, what's with all this noise? You're not about to go to war, are you?
Ares: No, we've not entered such a dire state yet. For the time being, we are merely preparing for the arrival of the Isaachian rebel army.
Lene: Oh, that's good. I guess I'm a bit worried about how you're gonna have to go and fight, too, Ares...
Ares: What sorry excuse for a mercenary would I be if I refused to join a battle, Lene? Never mind one which, rumor has it, will oppose Sigurd's son... Never would I deny a chance to personally slay the spawn of my father's mortal foe...
Lene: Hee hee! You're still going on about that, are you? Oh, you dolt. I mean, think about it. Both your father and that Sigurd man were knights, weren't they? And isn't killing part of a knight's job? It's like my job. Sometimes, I've got to dance for foul, leering men! I hate it, but it's part of the work. I have to just deal with it. We've all gotta do what we gotta do to get by in life. I dunno... I just don't think it's right to hate someone for doing their job.
Ares: Lene... I understand. I'll have to think it over for a time, but I do understand...

Dark mage: Good news, Your Grace. We've found your Book of Fenrir.
Ctuzof: Hmm? Excellent! Heh heh... This will be the end of the road for the rebels! With their dying thoughts, they shall marvel in fear at the terrifying power of Fenrir...

Seliph: So this is the Yied Shrine... It looks so sparse...
Lewyn: The remnants of the Loptyrian Empire have hidden within the depths of the shrine for generations. They had no choice. Trying to build new lives on the surface would have led to their mass persecution, or even being burned at the stake. I suspect that at first they weren't really bad or unusual people, but before long, their life here twisted them into what we know them as today.
Seliph: I can hardly believe it... It's as if they were all being tortured for the sins of their long-dead Imperial ancestors... All my life, these people have been branded as the "dark cult", or the "devil's kin"... I can barely imagine their pain... Hold a moment. This scribble on the wall... Is that a child's penmanship? It's a prayer... And it begs for the return of the dark god... ...Was Loptous the only hope these people had?
Lewyn: Yeah... Consider this a lesson, Seliph. Good and evil can't be easily reduced to such simple, black-and-white ideals. If you must hate, hate the evil which lurks in us all, not the individual. Never forget this.

Bramsel: Yied's fallen, has it? Heh... Perfect. Open our borders! We'll let them proceed through toward Fort Melgen, let them wear themselves out some more, then strike their wide-open backs! Kehehe... It's almost too easy to be any fun! Wouldn't you say, Jabarro?
Jabarro: Heh, just another hard day's work for you, sir... But hey, so long as you're payin' the bills, my men've got nothin' to complain 'bout. 'Bout time we had a good fight, anyhow.

Ishtore: Hmm... The rebels have already taken Yied? Liza, what do you make of the situation?
Liza: I suspect their most likely aim is to come to the aid of the Leonster rebels. As it stands, Ishtore, your father is still preoccupied besieging them at Leonster. Should they reach Alster and strike while he's occupied, the results would be disastrous... It is imperative that we intercept them here and now. Our force will be more than enough.
Ishtore: Indeed... My lord father could use the aid. Liza, may I place you in command of my army?
Liza: Certainly. Leave everything to me, milord.
Ishtore: I confess I'd rather keep you away from the eye of the storm, but there's nobody whom I could ever trust more than you. My apologies, Liza.
Liza: I... Rest assured, milord. You've nothing to worry about. Just... Please, Ishtore, be careful... Now, excuse me... Men, move out! Assume your positions!

Bramsel: Ohohohoho! Lene, was it? That was quite the dance there! Come hither. I have a little reward for you...
Lene: Eww, how rude! You get off your butt and come over here if you've got something to give me!
Bramsel: Hohoho! As cute as that fiery heart is, mouthing off to me so violently? I can't say I care so much for that. Bring her to me!
Lene: W-what d'you think you're doing?! Let go! Let! Me! Go! You ANIMALS!
Ares: Hold! Take your hands off the girl, craven scum!
Bramsel: What? And who exactly are you? How dare you, a common sellsword, turn your blade on your employer!
Ares: Nobody shall lay a hand on her, lest you face severe consequence. Are we clear?
Bramsel: Gah... What is this sorry little pantomime?! Seize him! End his little life!
Ares: You all see my sword, correct? I trust I need not introduce the demon blade. Beware, for Mystletainn craves the blood of men! Who dares to come forth and slake its thirst?
Bramsel: M-Mystletainn?! That's the one and only demon blade? Th-then you... It can't be...
Ares: Oh, but it can. It is indeed I: Ares, the Black Knight.
Bramsel: M-my deepest apologies, sir! I was merely jesting about! Look, I'll never lay hands on the little darling ever again! You forgive me, right? Right?
Ares: ...Very well. Lene, are you unharmed?
Lene: Yeah... Thank you, Ares...
Bramsel: Gah... Damn them both! I'll make them suffer... You'll see...

Lewyn: At last, Seliph, you've reached Melgen. Leonster's just a stone's throw from here.
Seliph: Say, Lewyn... Will this war ever end? I still doubt that Prince Ishtore or his general were truly wicked people... Must we kill still more like them?
Lewyn: That may be so, but don't forget they still actively served the will of a brutal tyrant. As far as our cause is concerned, there is no doubt. They were the enemy. This is a war, Seliph. There's more to it than only ever fighting the thoroughly evil, or those whom we hate.
Seliph: I suppose so...
Lewyn: Heh! It's okay, Seliph. You're a good man, through and through. You could just stand to worry a bit less. Now, then! We've got our goal to focus on: coming to the rescue over in Leonster.
Seliph: Indeed. Let's move in on Leonster. Everything shall be there!

Bramsel: What? Melgen's fallen already?! Blast! We were too slow! Oh, well. We can still ambush them while they regroup. Men, this is our chance! Jabarro, send in your brigade! Hit them hard while their backs are turned! Leave no survivors!
Jabarro: At once, sir!
Lene: D'you really have to go, Ares? Please don't leave... Please!
Ares: I've little choice in the matter. It was Jabarro who found me as a lost infant, and raised me all these years. I owe him dearly...
Lene: Don't you get it? He's just using your loyalty to treat you like a weapon! I... I hate him so much!
Ares: Lene... No that isn't...
Lene: Okay, fine! Whatever! Go with him, if you love him so much! It's your life to waste, after all! But you can just go forget we ever met!
Ares: Lene...
Bramsel: Hmph... That Ares buffoon has gone, has he? Good riddance...
Blume: Banba! Fetra! Eliu! Deploy at once! I want you to show these rebel pigs just what it is that the Empire can do!
Banba: Yes, milord. Leave it to us.
Fetra: We will never let you down, milord.
Eliu: The rebels shall be destroyed quickly, cleanly, efficiently and utterly. Excuse us, milord.
Blume: Hmm! Everything depends on you. Tine. You, too, will deploy at once.
Tine: ...Y-yes, uncle. As you wish...
Blume: Hmph... One would think I could expect more gratitude from someone I raised out of the goodness of my heart after their mother died. Or have you forgotten my many kindnesses?
Tine: No, uncle...
Blume: Good. Now, get moving. Remember, these rebels are responsible for murdering my dear son, Ishtore, and his true love, Liza! Avenging them is your mission, Tine!

Blume: The rest of you, move out at once! I don't want a single rebel left breathing!
Banba: Fetra. Eliu. I trust you already understand. We must work in absolute, perfect unison. We will be the ones to claim Seliph's head as a trophy this day. We mustn't be beaten by Tine’s unit.
Tine: I don't understand... All the villagers talk of the rebels as if they're liberating heroes... But why... Why did they kill Ishtore? I... I don't know what to do anymore... Oh... Mother... What would you do...

Bramsel: There you are, girlie! How dare you embarrass me like that the other day. It's about time I thanked you properly!
Lene: Oh? And what exactly're you gonna do about it? I see right through you! The moment Ares is nowhere in sight, you think it's okay to act all tough again, you vile louse! Don't even think about coming any closer. I don't need Ares around to stop you!
Bramsel: Of all the nerve... You little wench! Throw her in the dungeon! You'll have plenty of time to think about what you've done there!
Lene: Ahh! No... Ares...
Jabarro: Y'know, I don't get you Ares. Why the hell'd you go and get yourself all cosied up with a broad like that? Oh well, I guess. It's all in the past. You're gonna forget 'er sooner or later.
Ares: I beg your pardon? What exactly are you trying to say, Jabarro?
Jabarro: Heh heh... Oh, nothing. Well, 'cept that I bet Bramsel's right about to...
Ares: T-this can't be... Jabarro! How could you know his foul intent, yet let your tongue lie still before me?!
Jabarro: You can't worry 'bout the fairer sex, Ares. Have your fun with 'em, but never stick around for when their sorry lives come crashin' down...
Ares: How dare you! And to think you held my trust for so long... I must return to Darna! Lene needs me!
Jabarro: Nah, that ain't gonna happen, see. Nobody, and I mean nobody, blows off my orders and turns tail on my watch! Not even you, Ares.
Ares: Keh... I've come far in your company, Jabarro, but our association ends now. If anyone wishes to stop me, Mystletainn will eagerly welcome your necks!
Jabarro: Grr... I'll show you your place, whelp!

Seliph: So this is Darna... The legendary city...
Lewyn: Long ago, at the peak of the old holy war, Darna was the last bastion of the resistance army... It was the last free land in Jugdral. In battle after battle, the overwhelming might of the Loptyrian Empire had devastated the resistance. Ultimately, the last of the resistance soldiers barricaded themselves within Darna's walls. Battered and wounded as they were, they were nonetheless determined to fight to the bitter end. But then, suddenly, there was a miracle... From the heavens descended twelve gods, who bestowed upon twelve young heroes miraculous weapons and immense powers. Thus were born the Twelve Crusaders, the heroes who led the resistance to victory.
Seliph: That was the legendary Miracle of Darna, yes?
Lewyn: Yeah, the very same. And even as we speak, Seliph, another miracle is dawning upon us. Just as the resurrection of Loptous looms on the horizon, so too are the Crusaders themselves arising in our world once more...
Seliph: ...I beg your pardon?
Lewyn: Heh... Don't worry, Seliph. You'll understand soon enough...

Ares: I pray that Lene is still unharmed. I must hasten back to Darna...

Seliph: Right. Leonster is back under our control. That leaves only Alster... Everyone, we've only a little further to go. We can do this!

@End 
Seliph: Julia?! You’re safe! Oh, thank heavens...
Julia: Mm... The enemy seized and imprisoned me here, but I knew... I knew you would rescue me, no matter what.

Lewyn: Excellent work, Seliph. Thanks to you, Alster is finally free from the Empire.
Seliph: I wouldn't get too excited, Lewyn. King Blume yet lives. I assume he fled to Connaught amidst the flurry of Alster's capture.
Lewyn: Eh, these sorts of things can't be helped. After all, the war's only just beginning. We're only now starting to carve our foothold in the Thracian Peninsula.
Seliph: And yet, the citizens are already all so eager to support us! I've seldom seen such joy...
Lewyn: For the first time, they've got hope for a future free from the Empire's abuse. You're the people's last hope, Seliph, but the worst of the war still lies ahead, huh?
Seliph: Mm. And yet, I've so much incredible talent fighting by my side! With such amazing men and women with me I know no challenge will be too great!
Lewyn: Yeah... You'll all do just fine, Seliph.

@Visit 
Young woman: Darna is lorded over by Count Bramsel, who's as revolting as they come! If he isn't playing the slimy sycophant to some visiting Grannvale noble or other, he's prancin' around like he's the gods' gift to kings! Ugh... The sooner somebody sticks a sword through that pig of a man, the better!
Old man: It ain't that simple, though. Standing between you lot and Bramsel is the best mercenary force his money can buy. One of 'em, Ares, is the strongest of 'em all. He's still just a kid, really, but he's frightfully strong, 'cause he's got this magic blade called Mystletainn. From what I heard, the mercenary captain, Jabarro, found Ares as a wee little kid and took him in. The two're real close, I hear. You ain't got much of a chance against Ares. Sorry to rain on your parade like that, kid. Here, take this shield ring as an apology. You oughta be able to get some use out of this.

Man: Blume's got some terrifying warriors on his side. There's Banba, Fetra and Eliu, a trio of powerful sorceress sisters. Then there's Tine, a young mage... Blume's niece she may be, but that girl's still got a kind heart on her. She's come to our aid and the aid of our neighbor villages time and again... She's nothing like her family...

Old man: King Blume and his queen, Hilda, have got two children between 'em: Ishtar and Ishtore. Ishtar's ruling over Munster right now, and Ishtore's posted at Fort Melgen, both doing Blume's dirty work. Unlike their folks, they're fine youths. You'll be sure to face 'em sooner or later... Be on your guard, stranger.

Young man: Near the end of the war all those years ago, this entire region was conquered by King Blume, the son of Duke Reptor. His rule's been one tragedy after another... Just when we thought he couldn't get any worse, now he's just letting those child hunts happen! We can't take this anymore...

Woman: The Empire's brutal rule has broken us so... We can't live like this much longer. Please, I beg of you... Save us all...

Anna: You’re fighting in the war, right? I bet there’s someone you care about who you’re fighting for. My boyfriend set off to fight in the war, too. I’m not exactly a fighter myself. Not much I can do but wait for people like you to finish it... Oh, I know! Here, this charmed blade’ll boost your resistance. Go on. This one’s on the house. Be sure to make some nice, deep cuts in some Imperials for me, won’t you, sweetie?
Leylia: Thanks, miss! I’ll take good care of it. Hey, what’s your name anyway?
Anna: Me? The name’s Anna, and my boyfriend’s called Jake. If you see him, be sure to tell him that Anna’s worried sick!
Leylia: Jake...?

Old Woman: Ahh... The liberation army... It's a blessing to know that Prince Leif has finally taken a stand. Lord Quan... Lady Ethlyn... I pray you're both proud of your son... Please, kind knight, accept this speed ring. I'd like you to wear it proudly to your battles.

@Battle-Talk 
%Seliph,Shannan
Seliph: Shannan! I'm so glad to see you've made it unscathed.
Shannan: Yeah, sorry to worry you like that. You went and took back Isaach behind my back, did you, Seliph? I can't thank you enough!
Seliph: No, we'd still be in Tirnanog if not for you. You inspired us. You gave us your courage. If not for you, we could never have taken to the field!
Shannan: Heh, you're starting to put on a bit of muscle there, aren't you? You're finally starting to...
Seliph: Shannan...?
Shannan: Hm? ...Oh, it's nothing. Pay me no mind, Seliph.
Seliph: Anyway, we're finally starting to challenge the Empire! Not bad, wouldn't you say?
Shannan: Heh, not bad at all, Seliph! I've waited so long for this day... We all have, really.
Seliph: Thank you, Shannan!

%Larcei,Shannan
Larcei: Prince Shannan! Whew... Glad to see you're still in one piece!
Shannan: Oh, Larcei! Sorry I wasn't around to see all this begin. From what I've heard, you've all had quite the tough time so far.
Larcei: Don't worry about it! The important part is that you're safe. I, er...
Shannan: How's your sword arm doing? Any stronger?
Larcei: Yeah, but still far below your prowess, sir.
Shannan: How about a quick lesson to patch that up? See, raw power isn't quite enough here. Try putting a bit more spirit into it... and swing!
Larcei: Nnn-yah! Like this, sir...?

%Dermott,Nanna
Dermott: Excuse me. You wouldn’t happen to be Nanna, would you?
Nanna: I am. And you are?
Dermott: Perfect! I’ve finally found you! I’m your brother, Dermott!
Nanna: Huh?! What... are you talking about?
Dermott: I didn’t know until just now, either. King Lewyn told me everything. In the war seventeen years ago, I was with the kids who fled to Isaach. But you were born after our mother, Lachesis, went to Leonster instead.
Nanna: You... You’re my brother? Then where’s Mother now?!
Dermott: Er... Where’s Mother? What exactly are you getting at here, Nanna?
Nanna: I haven’t seen her in so long... When I was around three years old, she left us and travelled alone to Isaach, to try and find you. She never came back. I’ve waited to see her again for years...
Dermott: She did? But... but I never saw her!
Nanna: You... didn’t? Then where is she...
Dermott: The Yied Desert... It’s a very treacherous place. Very few lone travellers survive it...
Nanna: ...No! Oh, Mother...

%Tristan,Jeanne
Tristan: Excuse me. You wouldn't happen to be Jeanne, would you?
Jeanne: I am. And you are?
Tristan: Perfect! I've finally found you! I'm your brother, Tristan!
Jeanne: Huh?! What... You can't be serious!
Tristan: I'm being completely serious! See, our father was a knight of House Nordion. When we were both still little, he was killed in the Agustrian civil war, and we were adopted by Lord Sgiurd's army. We later fled to Isaach with Sir Oifey, but we somehow lost you along the way...
Jeanne: Huh... That actually fits. I was adopted by a travelling merchant, who once said he found me in Isaach.
Tristan: Yeah... Sir Oifey's always said he wondered if something like that happened.
Jeanne: But then, when I was just seven years old, some Imperial thug murdered him... That's when Finn found and adopted me.
Tristan: Wow... that sounds just awful. I'm sorry you had to deal with that, Jeanne.
Jeanne: No, it's okay. I mean, now I have you! I'm so happy I finally have a brother... Thank you, Tristan! Let's never be parted again...

%Oifey,Dermott
Oifey: Say, Dermott. You have a sister in Leonster, don't you?
Dermott: Yes, sir. We were separated when we were very young. From what I've heard, she grew up with Sir Finn, a knight of Leonster.
Oifey: Sir Finn, you say... You're eager to have the chance to see her again, aren't you?
Dermott: Yes, sir. I can hardly wait!
Oifey: Heh. You'll have to give this battle your all first, then! How about a quick swordplay lesson?
Dermott: Yes, sir! I'd appreciate that!

%Shannan,Patty
Patty: Kyaaaaaaa! Stop! Get your hands off of me!
Shannan: Ugh... Look, I don't want to hurt you. Could you just give me that sword back?
Patty: Wait... give it back? Is it yours?
Shannan: Yes, it is! It's my family's ancestral blade, Balmung. I'm the only person capable of using it. You've nothing at all to gain from keeping it.
Patty: Wait, so how'd this thing end up in Yied, anyway?
Shannan: It belonged to my father, who died in Grannvale's war with Isaach. Someone must've stolen it from him after he died. I only recently learned that it was being kept at Yied, so I came to retrieve it.
Patty: Hang on, hang on, hang on! Could it be... Are you Isaach's Prince Shannan?!
Shannan: I am...
Patty: Really? It's really, really you?! Wow! Oh my gosh, this is incredible!
Shannan: Er...
Patty: No, really, I've heard all the stories about you! All of them! I've been a huge fan of yours for so long, but I never thought I'd actually meet you!
Shannan: ...
Patty: But you're here! You're really here talking to me right now! It's like all of my dreams've come true!
Shannan: ...Yeah, I think I get the idea. My sword, please.
Patty: Oh, right! Sorry. Here ya go!
Shannan: Balmung... My holy sword... It's finally mine... Hm? Ahh! What is this power...?!
Patty: Wooow! This is incredible...

%Leif,Seliph
Leif: Lord Seliph! What an honor it is to meet you at last. I'm Leif, the son of King Quan of Leonster.
Seliph: The honor is all mine, Prince Leif! I'm glad to see you've made it thus far unharmed.
Leif: My parents both died in the Battle of Belhalla's prelude... They were felled by a Thracian ambush. My homeland, Leonster, soon found itself in the clutches of an Imperial occupation, and fell under the reign of its Duke Blume. If not for my knight, Finn, I wouldn't be here today. He raised me in hiding in nearby villages, and we awaited the day Leonster would rise again. We thought that day had finally come, but then...
Seliph: ...We both took to the battlefield around the same time, did we not? By now practically all of Jugdral knows of King Blume's brutality. I sorely wish my army had made it here sooner and could've properly aided you. You have my deepest apologies, Prince Leif.
Leif: No, Lord Seliph. I'm the one who should be apologizing. Our failure was squarely my fault. However, this isn't over. I am the son of Quan, a man worthy of being dubbed a Knight of Njörun. I refuse to put to shame his legacy, and so I'll live on. I'll fight on, no matter the cost. To that end, Lord Seliph, my comrades and I would like to join your army. I may not have much of an army left, but what I do have is yours. May we serve you well in restoring honor to Grannvale.
Seliph: Thank you, Prince Leif. Often I have heard it said that our fathers were inseparable friends, bound together to the bitter end in both life and death. Not to mention, your mother, Queen Ethlyn, is also my aunt... Both of your parents gave their lives to support my father's cause... Prince Leif, you have my deepest, most heartfelt apologies for their sacrifice...
Leif: Thank you, but that isn't necessary. I am proud of my parents' sacrifice, and I've the utmost respect for Lord Sigurd. The only hatred I bear is for the true villains, Emperor Arvis and King Travant!
Seliph: As do I... Prince Leif, in the name of our late fathers' last wishes, I seek to restore peace and light to all of Jugdral. Please, join me in my cause!
Leif: Yes, sir! You have my blade as your own!

@Battle
Myrmidon: Lord Bramsel has decreed that none shall pass this point for the time being. Move along.

@Battle-Talk
@Patty,Seliph
Patty: Kyaaaaa! You're Lord Seliph! Oh my gosh, oh my gosh, oh my gosh!
Seliph: ...Oh? And who would you be, miss?
Patty: I'm Patty, the one true love of Prince Shannan!
Seliph: You're Shannan's...? Er, somehow, I doubt that.
Patty: Whoops... Okay, you caught me! I'm actually a thief! Well, I used to be. I've had enough of all that now. Now, I want to pitch in with your army instead!
Seliph: Er... You aren't serious, are you? Military life is dangerous. There's no place for your ilk here.
Patty: Oh, you sound so sure! You barely have a coin to your name, but if you're gonna win this war, then nothing's more important than money. But with me around, you're not gonna have to worry about money ever again!
Seliph: I've no use for money obtained by theft.
Patty: ...You really have no idea, do you, sir? For every last coin carried by an Imperial soldier, there's a poor villager who they took it from. You can't look at all this and say that it's wrong for us to take that gold back! The people of this land've already lost so much... I... I just want to give something back...
Seliph: I see... Er, my sincerest apologies, Patty.
Patty: Sniff...
Seliph: Say, Patty: I'd like you to come with us.
Patty: Huh? Really? D'you really mean that?!
Seliph: But of course.
Patty: Th-thank you, sir! I promise I'll work as hard as I can for you! Oh, that reminds me! Here, take this sword. It's a little present, to commemorate us getting to know each other!
Seliph: Wow... This is a lovely blade!
Patty: It's one of those rare brave swords. And it's aaaaall yours, sir!

%Tristan,Rodolbahn
Rodolbahn: Oi, Tristan! I have to ask you something quick.
Tristan: Oh. Rodolbahn. What do you want now.
Rodolbahn: Oh, come on! That’s hardly necessary, is it? Can’t you at least pretend to be happy to see me? Now, as I was saying, here’s a question. I’ve been thinking that we’re kinda dragging Lord Seliph down here. What d’you think?
Tristan: We? You’re kidding, right? I’m pretty sure you mean yourself. Some of us are actually doing a good job here!
Rodolbahn: You sure? Come on, then. Let’s hear about that good job that you’ve obviously been doing so far!
Tristan: Gladly! Why, just today I’ve, er... Let’s see...
Rodolbahn: Hah! Told you! You can’t remember anything you’ve done if there’s nothing to remember, can you?
Tristan: Okay, okay! I admit it! I’ve been useless so far! What exactly are you getting at here?
Rodolbahn: How about a little sparring? Even someone like you oughta be enough of a learning experience! I’m desperate enough to try anything if it means dodging the guard duty shaft. I want to fight on the front lines like the best of ‘em!
Tristan: You really have no idea how to ask for help, do you? Go away, Rodolbahn.
Rodolbahn: Okay, fine! How about this? Pleeeeease? Please, please, pleeease be my sparring partner, you wonderful, wise, fantastic, sexy man? ...There, happy now?
Tristan: Ugh, what else did I expect... Fine, I’ll do it! If it’ll shut you up, that’s good enough for me. Ready? Now draw!
Rodolbahn: Hyaah!
Tristan: Ki-yah!

%Ares,Seliph
Ares: Seliph... At long last, it's you...
Seliph: Hm? And who would you be?
Ares: They call me the Black Knight, Ares... Perhaps you would recognize me better, however, as the son of Eldigan.
Seliph: Huh?! It cannot be... You don't mean the legendary Lord Eldigan of Nordion, do you?!
Ares: The very same! I am the son of Eldigan the Lionheart, the man whom your father killed in coldest blood! My noble mother, the Lady Grainne, died wracked with grief and rage at Sigurd! It is high time you knew my family's pain!
Seliph: That's... I don't understand, Ares. As I understood it, your father and mine were the closest of friends. As tragic as their end was, I don't believe our fathers could ever have begrudged each other.
Ares: That's impossible... Sigurd was my father's mortal foe! This... This is all I've know my entire life...
Seliph: Please listen, Ares. Would you consider joining my army? I know we can resolve this misunderstanding, if we just give it some time. I hold the late Lord Eldigan in the utmost respect, just as my own father did. Please, Ares. Please understand this.
Ares: Seliph... Very well. I suppose I can stay my hand for now. However, be warned. Should I learn that even a single word of your claims is false, your life is forfeit in your father's place. Do I make myself clear, Seliph?
Seliph: If that happens, then do as you must. Ares... I wish you could know just how ecstatic our fathers would be to know we've met at last! If only we'd met under better circumstances...

@Recruit-Talk
%Arthur,Tine
Arthur: Excuse me, but... That pendant of yours...
Tine: Huh? It's... It's a memento of my mother...
Arthur: Really?! Then you're Tine! Oh, I've finally found you!
Tine: Er... Who are you?
Arthur: Here, maybe this'll clear things up. This pendant of mine's exactly the same as yours, and I've had it my whole life.
Tine: Y-you're right, but... What are you saying?
Arthur: See, decades ago, my mother was a warrior fighting in Sigurd's liberation army, and after the war she fled to Silesse with her children. When I was little, my mother and my newborn sister disappeared... I was left behind with nothing but this pendant. I only recently learned what really happened. It was King Blume of Alster. He abducted them. He took my family from me. The rumors I've heard all said Mother had died a while ago, but they also said my sister is still alive... That's you, Tine! I've finally found you, after all these years! I came all this way just to see you again...
Tine: I... I never even knew Blume did that to Mother... It makes sense, though... I can't remember much of Mother, but I know I never saw her smile or laugh... You're my brother... Oh... Sniff...
Arthur: I don't suppose you'd like to lay down your arms and join our army, Tine? We've still got so much to talk about.
Tine: Mm. Thank you, brother. I never did want to fight...

@Battle-Talk
%Tine,Seliph
Tine: Um... Pardon me, sir...
Seliph: Hm? And who are you, ma'am?
Tine: I am Tine... Arthur’s sister...
Seliph: Ah, of course. I've been told your story, Tine.
Tine: Um... I'm sorry!
Seliph: You've nothing to apologize for, Tine. With the likes of King Blume for an uncle, I completely understand. You had no choice.
Tine: Are... are you forgiving me, sir?
Seliph: Certainly! There's no question that you're not our enemy, and it would be an honor to have you with us.
Tine: Wow... You're everything the stories say you are! I wish we couldn't met sooner...
Seliph: Heh... Thank you! Listen, Tine. I know fighting your own family is a painful prospect, so please, don't force yourself if you're at all uncomfortable.
Tine: Sir...

%Finn,Larcei
Finn: Ah! ...Pardon me, but who are you?
Larcei: Huh? I’m Larcei...
Finn: T-This cannot be...
Larcei: Hey, what’s your problem? You realize you’re staring at me, right?
Finn: Oh... My apologies, miss. It’s just you bear a striking resemblance to someone...
Larcei: Huh? I do...?
Finn: Yes... My apologies. This is a bit embarrassing, but you are the spitting image of a woman I loved long ago.
Larcei: Were you two a thing or what?
Finn: We were, for a time... But we parted during the war. I’ve been looking for her ever since...
Larcei: Oh... Sorry about that. What was her name?
Finn: You’re the only person I’ve met who matches her beauty. Her name was Ayra...
Larcei: Wait, Ayra?! ...A-are you kidding or what...

%Finn,Lana
Finn: Ah! ...Pardon me, but who are you?
Lana: Oh! Er, my name is Lana... You’re Sir Finn, are you not?
Finn: Y-you are...
Lana: ...Er, is something wrong, sir? You keep staring at me...
Finn: Oh... My apologies, miss. It’s just you bear a striking resemblance to someone...
Lana: I... do?
Finn: Yes... My apologies. This is a bit embarrassing, but you are the spitting image of a woman I loved long ago.
Lana: Was she your wife?
Finn: She was, for a time... But we parted during the war. I’ve been looking for her ever since...
Lana: Oh... What a sad story. What was her name?
Finn: You’re the only person I’ve met to match her beauty. Her name was Aideen...
Lana: Aideen?! That’s... That’s my mother!

%Finn,Nanna
Finn: How are you faring, Nanna?
Nanna: I’m okay, Father. You don’t need to worry over me so much.
Finn: Heh, you’re getting as strong-willed and bold as your mother was. It’s almost like it’s twenty years ago and I’m talking to Lachesis again...
Nanna: I don’t get it, Father. If you loved Mother as much as you keep saying you did, how could you just let her run off by herself like that?!
Finn: Look, Nanna. I’m sorry, but her journey to Isaach is none of your business. That was a private matter between her and myself. I ask that you do not intrude.
Nanna: But-
Finn: I promise that you’ll understand someday, when you’re a bit older...

@Battle
Ares: Lene! Where are you? Answer me!
Lene: Ares...
Ares: Oh! Is everything okay, Lene?
Lene: N-no... It's not... But someone from the liberation army rescued me... And I... I knew you'd come, Ares...
Ares: Lene, I... I beg your forgiveness... I was a fool! So very, very foolish... I should have heeded your word...
Lene: It's okay... After all, you're here now...
Ares: I swear to you, I'll never let this happen again...
Lene: And I swear I'll try to keep my big mouth to myself from now on! Don't ever leave me again, Ares...

%Lene,Seliph
Lene: Mister Seliph, right? Nice to meet ya!
Seliph: Er... Hello. And who are you?
Lene: I’m Lene, the dancer!
Seliph: You... You’re Lene?
Lene: Ohh... Mister Seliph, is this the first time you’ve ever seen a dancer?
Seliph: Y-yes, miss...
Lene: Hee hee... That’s adorable!

%Daisy,Shannan
???: Hey, Shannan! Guess whoooo!
Shannan: GAH!
Daisy: Ha-haaa! Bet I scared you real good!
Shannan: Argh, Daisy! For heaven's sake, I nearly took your head clean off! Would you mind cutting it out?
Daisy: But I'm sooooo booooored! And I'm not strong enough to fight, either!
Shannan: Then I suppose I'll help you patch that up, then. I don't have enough time to give you a proper lesson, but it'll be better than nothing.
Daisy: Eeeeeeee! I'm getting my very own private lesson with Prince Shannan himself!
Shannan: If you don't take this seriously, there won't be a lesson. Are we clear?
Daisy: Yep! I'm being completely serious!
Shannan: ...Very well. The first and most important step is posture... Hold on, are you even listening?
Daisy: Siiiiiiiigh...!

@Boss 
Ctuzof: You rebel worms... How dare you defile the sanctity of the Yied Shrine! Come! Embrace the darkness, as it entombs you forevermore!

Ctuzof: G-glory to... The Lopt... Empire

Liza: So you're the rebel army... This is where your insurrection ends! So long as I, General Liza, draw breath, you shall never reach Fort Melgen!

Liza: Ahh... Ish... tore...

Ishtore: So you've come this far? Heh... You're made of sterner stuff than I thought.

Ishtore: You... You vermin! How dare you slaughter Liza like that! You'll have no mercy!

Ishtore: Liza, I... I must leave the rest... in your hands...

Ishtore: Liza... I...

Jabarro: Heh... Welcome to your deaths!

%Ares,Jabarro
Jabarro: Ares! I've found you, you ungrateful sod! You're not gonna get away with this!
Ares: I regret it's come to this, but so be it. Farewell, Jabarro.

@Boss
Jabarro: Ugh... Ares, you dastard...

Bramsel: What?! Jabarro bungled it, did he? Darna is my city! Mine! Nobody will ever take it from me!

%Ares,Bramsel
Bramsel: ...Ares?! What are you... I should've known you were a filthy traitor!
Ares: Enough, Bramsel! Return Lene to me! NOW!
Bramsel: Oh, you're far too late! By now, that stubborn strumpet is... Heh heh heh...
Ares: D-damn you! You'll regret your words!

@Boss
Bramsel: Nngh... No... Darna is mine... All... mine...

Eliu: Taste the wrath of thunder, rebel!

Fetra: Taste the howling gale, traitor!

Banba: Taste ragin flames, brigand!

@Recruit-Battle
Tine: I... I'm sorry...

%Arthur,Tine
Tine: I... I'm sorry... I wish we didn't need to fight...
Arthur: H-hold on a moment! Are you... could it be...?

@Recruit-Battle
Tine: Aah...

@Boss
Blume: Ha! So long as I wield the Book of Mjölnir, what reason would I ever have to fear the likes of you?

%Arthur,Blume
Blume: And what are you? Wait... could it be...?
Arthur: Blume! I've waited years for this moment! You took my mother and sister from me, and today you'll finally pay!
Blume: Gah... Impudent whelp! Just try me!

%Leif,Blume
Blume: Oho! Quan's son, I presume? You somehow still live on... I'm almost impressed.
Leif: King Blume! You've tortured my people for long enough! Prepare to die at last!
Blume: Hmph! A likely retort, but only one of us will die this day, and it will never be me!

%Tine,Blume
Blume: W-wait... Tine?! How dare you betray my many kindnesses...
Tine: I-I'm sorry, Uncle...

@Boss
Blume: Nngh... How? How could I lose... I've no choice... For now, I must retreat to Connaught...
/***EOF***/
@Opening 
The unthinkable has come to pass. Sigurd is now a traitor in the eyes of his beloved Grannvale. In desperation, his army flees to find refuge in the northern Kingdom of Silesse. 

Silesse was founded by the Wind Crusader, Ced. It lies under the watchful guard of the valiant pegasus knights and wind mages, and so for over a century since its foundation, Silesse has maintained itself as a neutral nation and persistent all invaders. 

However, ever since the death of its king several years ago, the royal family has been plagued with strife over its inheritance, and shades of war creep over the peaceful land. The late king and his wife, Queen Rahna, had a single son, Prince Lewyn. The king's greedy younger brother, Duke Daccar, objects to Lewyn being heir to the throne and has confined himself to Zaxon Castle in protest. As if acting in concert, the king's youngest brother, Duke Maios, has set to work raising an army for himself at Thove Castle. 

Out of disgust at his uncles, Prince Lewyn left Silesse to travel the world years ago. Is there no end to the dukes' avarice? Their lust for power will condemn Silesse, a beautiful and majestic land, to the searing ravages of a brutal war.

@Intro 
Oifey: Sire, Queen Rahna is here to see you.
Sigurd: Queen Rahna?
Rahna: Good evening, Lord Sigurd. Are you comfortable settling into Sailane yet? Is there anything at all that you need?
Sigurd: As much as I appreciate the offer, we're fine. I can't thank you enough for your hospitality, Your Highness.
Rahna: I know Sailane is perhaps too small to house all of you adequately, and I'm sorry, but please, bear with me for a while longer... I'm doing all I can to hasten your liberty. I've sent letter after letter to Belhalla to advocate for your innocence. As of yet, however, I've still heard nothing at all from King Azmur.
Sigurd: This... This has to be Reptor's doing! First he betrays my father, and now he's stopping all of your letters! He must be!
Rahna: Calm yourself, Lord Sigurd! I know well the pain you're feeling, but you cannot let your grudges rule you. Your anger will not save your father. Hatred will only destroy you from within. I swear to you, I can and I will find a way to set this to rights, but you must be patient.
Sigurd: You're right... I'm sorry, Your Highness. I really appreciate all you've done for me.
Rahna: It's alright, Lord Sigurd. Oh, before I forget... There actually has been some good news from Grannvale of late.
Sigurd: Good news, you say?
Rahna: Mm. A previously unknown daughter of Prince Kurth has been discovered. All of Grannvale is rejoicing at the news.
Sigurd: Huh?! Is that even possible?
Rahna: It took King Azmur only a glance to recognize her true heritage. She bears the brand of Naga, the proof of a true heir to House Belhalla. There is no doubt. She is Kurth's child.
Sigurd: I see... Thank goodness. At the very least, this means the royal lineage won't go extinct.
Rahna: That's not all. The princess and Duke Arvis are in a relationship. King Azmur has given his blessing, and a magnificent wedding will soon be held.
Sigurd: Arvis? Really?
Rahna: All who've seen the happy couple eagerly attest that this beautiful princess and Duke Arvis are perfectly matched together. To say nothing of how happy the couple is said to be! Young love is wonderful, isn't it? ...Oh. Lord Sigurd, I'm so sorry. I forgot. Your wife is still-
Sigurd: Deirdre... My wife's still gone, yes... It's been over a year since she vanished. She's missed an entire year of watching Seliph grow up.
Rahna: I'm so sorry, Lord Sigurd, but cheer up. I know you'll reunite someday.
Sigurd: You're right. I feel it, too. I can't give in to sorry just yet. I can't give up on finding her.
Annand: Pardon me, milady, but the hour is late. We should be on our way soon.
Rahna: Ah, of course. I'll be with you in a moment. Lord Sigurd, one last thing... Beware of Duke Maios of Thove. I regret to say that my brother-in-law has long hungered to claim Sailane for himself. It's only a matter of time till he goes so far as to attack you. I wish I could provide you with reinforcements, but...
Sigurd: ...I know. The capital is under the very same threat from Duke Daccar of Zaxon. You cannot afford to weaken your own guard. Daccar will pounce upon you given even a hint of weakness. Don't worry about it, Your Highness. There's nothing the Thove army can throw at us that we can't handle.
Rahna: Ah, of course. I should be more confident in such veteran heroes as yourselves. Oh! I've been talking for so long, I lost track of the time. Take care, Lord Sigurd.
Sigurd: You, too, Your Highness. Thank you.
Lewyn: Mother! Aren't you forgetting somebody? You've just chatted for hours and hours with Sigurd, yet you can't even acknowledge your own son?
Rahna: My son? The one who abandoned me two years ago, going gods know where? How do I talk to someone who's clearly not here?
Lewyn: Heh heh... So this is how it's going to be, is it? You're still mad at me, then?
Rahna: Of course I am! Do you have any idea how hard it was without you, and how worried I've been after you? That my own son could be so cold-hearted... I thought I knew you better than this.
Lewyn: Look, I know you're upset, but I had my reasons for all this. But come on, I'm home safely! Surely that counts for something and you can forgive me? I swear I'll make up for it and be the very picture of a good son. Hey, how about I give you a shoulder massage to start?
Rahna: Oh! What nerve! Treating me as if I'm an old crone... Look, Lewyn, there are more pressing matters which we need to talk about, and soon. Come to Silesse as soon as possible. Do not forget! Do I make myself clear?
Lewyn: ...Sigh. I thought she'd never stop.
Annand: Don't be fooled by your mother's outward behavior, milord. She's actually very happy, now you've returned. Indeed, she hasn't been anything as cheerful as this since before you left.
Lewyn: Thanks, Annand. Knowing you're at her side is a big relief. Look after her, okay?
Annand: Yes, sir! Rest assured, I will protect the queen with my life, on my honor as the captain of the Silessian pegasus knights.
Lewyn: Thanks. Oh, one more thing... Are you gonna leave Erinys here with Sigurd?
Annand: I am... Milord, I'd like you to keep my sister at your side. She-
Erinys: Annand!
Annand: Oh. Eavesdropping, were you, Erinys?
Erinys: You were about to tell him too much, so...
Annand: Ah. My apologies, Erinys. There are things he shouldn't know just yet, of course... Erinys, I'll be leaving with Queen Rahna and returning to Silesse Castle shortly. You'll stay here and keep and eye on Prince Lewyn. Best of luck.
Erinys: Thank you, Annand.

Quan: Sigurd, we'll now be taking our leave. It's high time we returned to Leonster. Rest assured, we'll be back, this time leading the full military might of Leonster to your aid. May that day come soon, my friend.
Ethlyn: I'm going with Quan, Sigurd. Don't worry, though. We'll be back before you know it! Take care of yourself.

Finn: By your leave, sir, I'll be departing with my lord. Thank you for all you've done for us. Don't give up, sir. One day, I know, the charges against you will be cleared and your good name restored. I know you can do this.
Sigurd: Thank you. You've got quite the journey back to Leonster ahead of you. I wish I could do more to help you on your way. May your journey be a safe one!

Maios: Díthorba! Is the army ready to deploy yet?
Díthorba: Yes, sir. Bishop Cuvuli's wind mage unit has infiltrated the forests near Sailane. They await your command, sir.
Maios: Very well. Relay my orders to Cuvuli: move in on Sailane! Díthorba, I trust your pegasus corps are already briefed on your mission?
Díthorba: Yes, sir. Our task is clear. My squadron is to raid the enemy from above, disrupting their tactics.
Maios: Good. Now get to work! Grannvale will owe us a handsome reward for bringing them the heads of their infamous traitors! Heh heh heh...

@Battle 
Cuvuli: There's the signal to assault Sailane, as planned. I trust you're all ready? Move in! Teach the traitorous scum the terror of a wind mage's wrath!

Daccar: The Thove army's attacking? Looks like Maios has finally made his move. Heh heh... Why, this little drama is finally getting interesting. Wouldn't you say, Pamela?
Pamela: Indeed, sir. However, as I recall we didn't account for Sigurd's fugitives being here. Their strength poses a real risk to the plan. If Maios at least succeeds in weakening them, perhaps Silesse's fall will still go smoothly?
Daccar: Even if he fails, I still have my private deal with Grannvale in my favor. Their Lord André should arrive shortly with a battalion of reinforcements. Heh heh... My victory is certain, Pamela! I'll be sitting on the Silessian throne by the end of the week!
Pamela: Without a doubt, sir.

Maios: Hm? I'd say those traitors are drawing perhaps a bit too close for comfort. You there! Raise the Thove River drawbridge! Without this key, there's no way they'll ever get over here. Heh heh... I almost wish I could see the looks on their faces!

Dew: What, just one of these locks? C'mon, at least gimme a challenge... Ta-da!

Oifey: Sire, the Thove village elder would like a word with you.
Sigurd: Of course. Actually, I'd imagine we need to talk this situation over. Bring him in.
Old man: Lord Sigurd, I presume? We can't thank you enough for getting rid of Lord Maios. The entire population of Thove is rejoicing at his downfall!
Sigurd: Hm? Are you sure? I mean, I just conquered you. Am I not the enemy here?
Old man: Lord Maios was nothing but a tyrant. All he ever did was bleed us dry. You fight in the name of Queen Rahna, and there isn't a Silessian alive who doesn't bear the utmost adoration for our queen.
Sigurd: Is that so? Thank you. Anyway, in the interim I think I'll leave governing Thove to you, sir. Once the crisis has settled, the queen will be in touch to arrange a proper successor. Until then, I'm sure you'll be a just governor to help heal Thove's wounds.
Old man: Very well. Please, Lord Sigurd, do all you can to protect the queen. She is a treasure to us, and a beacon of peace and kindness.
Sigurd: Rest assured, my good man. So long as I live, I swear that I'll let no harm come to Queen Rahna. You have my word.

Daccar: Thove has fallen, has it... I almost feel bad for my brother: little more than a pawn in my dreams who'd outlived his usefulness. Pamela, it's your turn. Lead your pegasus knights into battle at once! Sigurd is well clear of the capital. Seize it while he has no chance of aiding them!
Pamela: Yes, sir!
Annand: Dire news, milady! Zaxon has deployed Pamela's pegasus unit and they're closing in on the capital.
Rahna: What?! This can't be happening! ...So, at long last, Daccar has put to rest his tired old façade of innocence.
Annand: Be at ease, milady. My squad will keep Pamela's at bay.
Rahna: Annand, are you sure you can do this? I've heard stories of the sheer terror of Pamela's might as a warrior.
Annand: Of course... I know better than to take lightly such a formidable foe. But remember, I am one of the Four Falcon Knights of Silesse. I never enter a battle ill prepared.
Rahna: Ah... I'm so sorry, Annand. I already know well how you feel about all this, but... I...
Annand: To fight in your name is the only life I know... Milady, please. Don't worry about me so much. If that's all, then, I'll be going. Knights, to me! Move out!

Daccar: Ah. Duke André, I presume? You certainly took your time getting here... And... Oh! How magnificent! So this is Jungby's renowned bow knight legion!
André: Hmhmhm... Alas, my father is dead, and my sister is a fugitive among the traitors. This leaves me, and me alone, as the Duke of Jungby and the leader of our legion! Against the might of the Beige Ritter, these winged ponies stand no chance at all! Now, sit back and watch them drop like flies!

Annand: It's been a while, Pamela... I've known you for years, ever since we trained side by side to become knights. But not once did I ever suspect we would someday find ourselves as enemies.
Pamela: Annand... Only you would be so foolish as to insist on following your queen to her inevitable grave! Why should I complain, though? After all, once you're out of the way, that leaves me as the greatest knight of Silesse!
Annand: The only fool here is you, Pamela! No... It's too late to change your mind. You're so set on your fate... Very well. All I can do for you now is give you a last honorable duel befitting a Silessian knight.
Pamela: Heh... Saccharine as ever, aren't you?

Rahna: Annand has been killed?! Ahh... How could this happen... I'm so sorry, Annand... Forgive me...

Lewyn: What? Annand's dead?! ...Y-you're joking!!

Erinys: Huh? Annand was... No! Th... this can't be happening! How... how could anyone have killed her? This can't be...

André: Heh... I expected so much more from Silesse's famous pegasus knights... No matter. I suppose we might as well bring down the capital while we're here. Pamela, your unit will cross the mountains. Besiege and capture Thove immediately.
Pamela: Very well.

André: The capital is under our control? Good. Mission accomplished. We ride for Grannvale at once!

Daccar: Heh... At long last. The capital is mine, and mine alone! Now, I want a wind mage unit deployed south of Silesse River. Fortify our defensive line there. Furthermore... Donovan! You and your axemen are to occupy the capital and maintain its defenses. But don't even think about killing the queen. We can't waste a hostage of such high value.
Donovan: Got it, sir!

Rahna: Hurry! You need to flee as fast as you can!
Young woman: But, Your Highness...
Rahna: I'll be okay! Look after yourselves, please!
Young man: People, please! The queen wants us to run, so come on! Run!

Donovan: Huh? Where the hell are all the townsfolk?! Ugh... they scarpered, didn't they? Damn it! They took all the fun outta this! Boys, it's up to you now! Get out there and butcher those little pigs! No survivors! Understand!
Rahna: No! Please, stop! My citizens are as innocent as they come! It matters not what happens to me, but please, don't harm my people!
Donovan: I don't think so. You've been screwin' up Lord Daccar's will long enough, missy. 'Bout time you learned your lesson!
Rahna: Ahh...

Daccar: Heh... It appears leaving this to Donovan was a good idea after all.
Lamia: Well, now! It's been a long time since I've seen such darling villainy anywhere! It's almost enough to turn a weaker stomach.
Daccar: Coming from someone like you, willing to kill anyone, anywhere, anytime so long as you're handsomely paid, that's quite a claim. High praise indeed, if it's from the infamous "Lamia the Infernal".
Lamia: Ohoho! Quite the flatterer, aren't you? Now, where do we begin with our mayhem?
Daccar: For now, your group will guard the castle. Be ready to roll out your traditional welcome in case Sigurd's thugs try causing us grief.
Lamia: Guard duty? Really? Where's the fun in that? Eh, no matter. It's your money. Oi, ladies! Listen up! We're on guard duty. Stick to the castle, and pick off the enemy's leftovers if they come!

Donovan: Huh? So the Sailane army's finally comin'? Good! It's 'bout time I gave those damned rebels the axe! Boys, get off yer sorry hinds! Guard the castle no matter what. Don't let 'em get anywhere near it!

Sigurd: Your Highness! I'm so glad you're unharmed. My sincerest apologies for not coming to your aid sooner.
Rahna: It's fine, Lord Sigurd. That you've made it here is more than enough. I... I'm sorry I couldn't do more. Too many people have died, and I could only stand by and watch... I can't bear it. And... and Annand...

^start 
Sigurd: Don't worry, Your Highness. Annand's killers will die this day by my hand. Daccar's crimes are beyond forgiveness. I promise you: he will not escape me. With this in mind, I humbly request your authorization to assault Zaxon Castle.
Rahna: Lord Daccar's petty greed has condemned my people to utter agony long enough. He is a murderer. Nothing more, nothing less. You may visit justice upon him, Lord Sigurd.
Sigurd: Understood. I'll mobilize my army to capture Zaxon immediately. For now, Your Highness, please get some rest.
Rahna: Do take care of yourself, Lord Sigurd. As soon as Zaxon is under your control, I'll be coming by for a word with you.

Sigurd: Don't worry, Your Highness. We've already put an end to Annand's killers. That said, in our haste we neglected to get your consent to do so. My apologies.
Rahna: It's alright, Lord Sigurd. I couldn't possibly thank you enough for all of your help today. I'll come by Zaxon Castle later, once everything has settled here. May we meet again then, Lord Sigurd.
^end 

Daccar: Oh, you must be joking! Those accursed rebels have already re-captured Silesse?! What in the blazes is Donovan even doing out there?
Daccar: Instruct Pamela to lead her squad in pursuit of Sigurd’s army! Throw everything we have at him! 
Daccar: Blast... We've no choice. Instruct Lamia to move out and attack at once! They mustn't be allowed near my castle!
Lamia: Wow, even something so tiny gets Daccar panicking... No matter. Let's go, ladies! We've got quite the feast ahead of us!

@End 
Oifey: Sire, Queen Rahna has arrived.
Rahna: Lord Sigurd, that was quite the fierce battle, wasn't it? Are you unharmed?
Sigurd: Yeah. Somehow, I'm okay.
Rahna: I know I've asked so much of you already, Lord Sigurd, but would you and your army please station yourselves here at Zaxon? Grannvale's Lord Langbalt has already swept in with an immense army and conquered Lubeck Castle, to our east. The people of Silesse are terrified that this will prove to be but a prelude to a full-scale war with Grannvale.
Sigurd: Your Highness, I believe Langbalt's army is here only for me. I've no desire to needlessly endanger you or your citizens, after all you've done for us. My men and I are leaving. Now. I have a score to settle with Langbalt.
Rahna: What recklessness! How could you possibly prevail like this?
Sigurd: They're coming for me no matter what. If we remain here, then they'll just invade. We can't afford to waste time debating this.
Rahna: Is that so... How sad...
Sigurd: Your Highness... Thank you so much. You've given me the most wonderful year here, and you've done so much to put my mind at ease. My mother died when I was still very young, so as I grew up, I never knew the unconditional love of a mother.. But thanks to you, here in Silesse, I've come to know that very same warmth. You're like a second mother to me now... Take care of yourself, Your Highness. I hope that someday, once this is all over, we'll have a chance to meet again.
Rahna: As do I, Lord Sigurd. Please, stay vigilant out there, and keep yourself safe. From the bottom of my heart, I pray that you and Deirdre will soon be reunited.

@Visit 
Old man: Magic is governed by a hierarchy of power, just like weapons. Fire magic bests wind, wind bests thunder, and thunder bests fire. However, dark and light magic have an advantage over all of the others. Think your strategies through with care.

Old man: Bein' of holy ancestry can bestow a number of powers onto ya. Divine heirs can wield even the most advanced weapons with ease, and'll have an easier time growin' stronger. 'Course, it's not every day you meet someone blessed with that sorta blood.

Old man: The Silesse royal family wields the power of wind, as bestowed by the wind god, Forseti. House Velthomer wields the power of fire, as bestowed by the fire goddess, Vala. And House Friege wields thunder powers, as bestowed by the thunder god, Tordo.

Old man: The sinister powers of the dark god Loptyr can be fought only with the glorious powers of Naga, our great god. Only Grannvale's House Belhalla, the heirs to Saint Heim, inherit Naga's power.

Old man: Only a direct holy descendant can inherit the full breadth of the power of the gods. And only they'll be able to wield their family's divine heirlooms. However, if kin intersect, their offspring'll have their exalted blood enriched and'll reap almighty powers. Needless to say, mind, doin' that is condemned and forbidden...

Old man: Should Prince Kurth's daughter bear a son, that son would be heir to Grannvale's throne. I daresay this makes Lord Arvis, husband to the princess, quite the influential figure.

Old man: Legend has it that all direct heirs to the Crusaders bear exalted brands on their bodies, which appear on them in their infancy. Prince Kurth's daughter has her Naga brand on her forehead. Actually, that was how they recognized her as a direct heiress to Saint Heim.

Man: Oh! Lord Sigurd's army is here to save us all! Hang on... Aren't you a dancer, miss? If you don't mind, perhaps you could do a little dance for us? It's been so long since we've had time for respite or fun...
Silvia: Yep not a problem! If you think it'll help everyone cheer up a bit, then I'm gonna dance my feet off! ...Okay! Heeeere we go!

Silvia: Hah!

Silvia: Yeah!

Silvia: Hyaaah!

Silvia: Whew... Well, how 'bout that? Everyone feelin' a little better?
Man: Oh! What fantastic dancin'! I dunno how, but now I feel like I'm ready to give life my all! I can't thank you enough, miss. Here, perhaps this magic sword'll help ya out. It oughta do a fine job of keeping ya safe.

Man: Y'know how there's a drawbridge over the Thove River? Yeah, that's under the control of Duke Maios, too. If it's still drawn and you don't have the key, you're not getting across. Mind you, if you have a thief's sticky fingers at your service, that might not be a problem...

Man: What's that? You got the drawbridge lowered? How'd ya know to do that?

@Battle-Talk 
%Sigurd,Claud
Sigurd: I'm so sorry I dragged you into this mess as well, Father Claud.
Claud: It's fine. If anything, I'm sorry that my efforts to aid you simply weren't enough. I did return to Grannvale, and I was about to relate the truth to His Majesty. But Reptor interfered before I could do anything, and now I, too, am branded a traitor to the motherland.
Sigurd: Ugh. I've had enough of just sitting here and letting Reptor have his sorry way! I swear, I've half a mind to storm straight into Grannvale and end this once and for all!
Claud: No. You know better than to rely on brute force or risk the common folk's safety. For now, Lord Sigurd, we must endure.
Sigurd: But, Father Claud-
Claud: Make no mistake. I feel your pain, too, but this crisis's end now lies in fate's hands. There is nothing any of us can do to save ourselves anymore.

%Tailtiu,Azelle
Tailtiu: Hey, Azelle? Wait up a sec.
Azelle: Tailtiu? Is something wrong?
Tailtiu: I need to ask you something quick.
Azelle: Hm? Me?
Tailtiu: Yeah. That okay? I mean, we've been friends for years. And I don't think there's anyone else who I can ask about this.
Azelle: Huh. You look downright grim and serious... If you really think I can help, then sure. What seems to be the problem?
Tailtiu: Well... I, er... I'm only with you lot because I was just following Claud around, but I'm starting to think I shouldn't have done that...
Azelle: What makes you think so?
Tailtiu: It's because people are acting kinda like they're treading carefully 'round me. And when I'm around, people stop talking about my father...
Azelle: Ah... That certainly doesn't sound fun. But I'd say people really do like you. It's more that they honestly aren't sure how they should treat you, and that they're worried they'll cause you grief. Don't worry too much. It'll all be fine once they get to know you better.
Tailtiu: Yeah... Guess you're right. Thanks, Azelle. Think I might be feeling a bit better 'bout this now.
Azelle: Hah! Glad you're back to normal, Tailtiu. If you're ever feeling like this again, I'll always be here to help you through it, no matter what happens.
Tailtiu: Okay. Thanks!

%Aideen,Azelle
Aideen: Take care of yourself out here, Azelle.
Azelle: Right. And you as well, Aideen.
Aideen: This still feels so odd... Not once did I ever think that one day we would be together like this.
Azelle: It's because I'm younger than you, right?
Aideen: Oh, no. I'm still not sure why...
Azelle: I still can't quite believe it, either! That you're now my wife... It all still feels like I'm living in some kind of dream!
Aideen: Hm? How so? Don't you believe our marriage feels right?
Azelle: It's not that. It's because, er... Well, you're so beautiful... Even though I was still very young, when I saw you for the first time years ago, my heart just wouldn't stop pounding! Ever since that day, you were the only one for whom I've ever felt this way.
Aideen: Oh, Azelle...
Azelle: It's still pretty embarrassing to admit... Oh, I almost forgot! This is for you. This is a Rescue staff. You can use it to bring people far away back to your side instantly. I know you'll put it to good use.
Aideen: I'm so happy to be with you, Azelle. I'll always treasure having such a kind and gentle soul as you by my side...

%Aideen,Midir
Aideen: Midir, please accept this bow. 
Midir: Isn’t this a brave bow? Are you sure you want to give away something so rare?
Aideen: I am. I bought it for you, after all. Silesse’s pegasus knights are a formidable foe to face. With a bow of this caliber in hand, I know you’ll be better prepared to fight them.
Midir: Milady... I still can’t believe this isn’t a dream! I can’t believe we’re actually married... I’ve dreamed of this for so long. 
Aideen: I’ve long dreamt of the same myself. I wanted to act upon it for many years, but I couldn’t, even at my loneliest... But.. I think by now you can just call me Aideen. I’ll always look out for you, Midir. I’ll always pray for your safety.

%Aideen,Jamke
Aideen: Jamke, I’d like for you to have this bow.
Jamke: This is a brave bow, isn’t it... You sure it’s okay for me to take it?
Aideen: Yes. Please, accept it. As formidable as the Silessian pegasus knights are, so long as you have this bow, I know you’ll have the upper hand. 
Jamke: Thanks, Aideen. I know I’ll be able to keep you safe with a bow like this. I guess I’ll see you later, once this is all over.
Aideen: Jamke... I’ll be praying for your safety. 

%Silvia,Erinys
Sylvia: Hey! Hey, Erinys! You totally like Lewyn, don't ya? Like, do ya really like him?
Erinys: Huh? I... that's... Er, no. Prince Lewyn is beloved and respected by all the people of Silesse, myself included.
Sylvia: Oh? Okay, then. Then I guess you'd be okay with me and Lewyn getting together, right?
Erinys: Er... Yes. I wouldn't really mind...
Sylvia: Reeeeally? That wouldn't but ya at all?
Erinys: No, I'm sure I'd have no issue. Why do you ask? Am I supposed to object?
Sylvia: I dunno! But if it's all fine by ya, then I guess it's time for me to go work my magic on Lewyn...
Erinys: Er... The thing is, a prospective queen of Silesse ought to possess the same grace and dignity as our Queen Rahna.
Sylvia: Oh, so you're sayin' I'm not cut out for it? How rude!
Erinys: Er, no... That isn't-
Sylvia: Hrmph! Fine then! I'll show you!
Erinys: .....

%Silvia,Claud
Silvia: Hello there, mister Father!
Claud: Hm? And who are you?
Silvia: I'm Silviiiiiiiia!
Claud: Well then, Miss Silvia, how can I help? Have you, perchance, recently run afoul of bandits?
Silvia: What's that?
Claud: Well, er... I'm not sure how to put this... You're wearing nothing but smallclothes.
Silvia: Eh?! Watch your mouth, mister Father! Haven't you seen dancers like me before? This is just a dancer's clothes. It's just like you wearin' your churchy cloak!
Claud: Is that so... Hm. Surely you're chilled to the bone, wearing as little as you are, though?
Silvia: Oh, no! Even 'round here I'm never cold, 'cause my heart's ablaze!
Claud: Is dancing truly so fun for you?
Silvia: Yeah! I just love it!
Claud: Is that so... What of your parents? Do they agree with this career of yours? 
Silvia: Actually, I'm an orphan. When I was really little, my master took me in and helped me become a dancer. But he... he was an awful, awful man. He'd always beat me outta nowhere. 'Bout a year ago I couldn't stand any more of it all, so I ran away.
Claud: I see... What a horrible tale. I believe I know your pain. I once had a sister, who would likely be around your age if she's still alive.
Silvia: A sister?
Claud: Yes. Alas, she was abducted while she was still an infant. I've searched for her ever since, but to this day I've yet to find any sign of her.
Silvia: Ohh... I bet she's just like a princess! She's gotta be all pretty and classy... And nothin' like me...
Claud: I disagree. I assure you, I do find you to be utterly charming. In your own way, you possess a unique grace and beauty.
Silvia: Oh... mister Father... really?
Claud: Of course. I could never lie.
Silvia: Th-thank you... Nobody's ever told me somethin' like that... This feels kinda funny somehow... Oh... Oh, great, now I'm cryin'... What is this...?

%Lewyn,Sigurd
Lewyn: Hey, Sigurd? Could I have a word?
Sigurd: Ah, Lewyn. I'm so sorry about what happened to Annand. I had no idea Jungby's bow knights would get involved in this mess.
Lewyn: No, it's not your fault. Just mine... I just haven't been thinking right lately. I should've been here all along, looking after Mother and the country. But nope, I just ran away! That's why Annand died... She just took my place in all this.
Sigurd: There's no need to blame yourself. The best you can do now is care for the queen, and ensure that Annand didn't die in vain.
Lewyn: Yeah, I know. No use pointing out the obvious, huh?
Sigurd: Very well. Oh, Lewyn, before I forget... Don't forget to go see your mother at the capital as soon as possible. She said it's of the utmost importance!

%Erinys,Lewyn
Erinys: Lord Lewyn...
Lewyn: ...Oh, Erinys. I'm so sorry. Forgive me. Please...
Erinys: Oh, you mean about Annand...
Lewyn: ...Yeah.
Erinys: Oh, so she... you really did... I'm so sorry. I had no idea.
Lewyn: Whoa, Erinys! You've got it all wrong. I guess when I was younger, I did sorta have a thing for Annand... But that was then. This is now, and the now is you.
Erinys: C-come again?!
Lewyn: Erinys, I... I love you...

@Battle
Lewyn: Mother! You're not hurt, are you? When I heard that Silesse had fallen, I... I was pretty worried there.
Rahna: Thank you so much for coming, Lewyn. Perhaps at last, you've matured into a young man who honors his promises. Perhaps Lord Sigurd has had quite the positive influence on you after all.
Lewyn: Oh, come on, Mother! You don't need to act like I'm still a child. Besides, Sigurd is hardly all that much older than I am.
Rahna: Dear, compared to the likes of Lord Sigurd, you may as well still be a screaming infant. You've still much to learn from him, and quickly. Nothing would be more reassuring than having a son as fine as he by my side. Especially now that Annand is... Oh...
Lewyn: Annand... I should've been the one to die out there. Not her. If only I'd gotten here sooner! Mother, I'll be here to protect you from now on. I won't let Annand's death go to waste. I swear, I will never, ever leave you again.
Rahna: Oh, Lewyn... I never thought you were capable of saying anything so kind. But your word is more than enough. For now, at least, I believe you should remain at Lord Sigurd's side. He has a greater need of your strength.
Lewyn: But if I do that, what about you...?
Rahna: There's nothing to worry about, Lewyn. You are the heir of the wind crusader. Your place is with the rest of the world, to lead and guide it on its true path. The time has come for me to confer upon you your true birthright... The exalted wind tome, Forseti. Here, Lewyn. It's yours.
Lewyn: This... So this is the royal family's ancestral tome... The Book of Forseti... Oh! This power... What's this... warmth?
Rahna: Lewyn, never forget: the Wind Crusader flows as the gentlest breeze. His way is to guide all the peoples of the world on the path of peace. Hate and violence is never his answer.
Lewyn: Yes, of course. I don't think I could live my life any other way.
Rahna: Indeed. Perhaps you truly are a child of the wind... Lewyn... It's time for you to go. Take care out there, and... And don't do anything too rash.
Lewyn: Mother...
Rahna: Go on! ...For heaven's sake, go...
Lewyn: Okay, mother please take care of yourself.
Rahna: Oh... Lewyn...

Young woman: Ah! Are you here to help me? I couldn't possibly thank you enough!

Young man: Oh! You're here to save me? Thank you so, so much!

@Boss 
Cuvuli: Hmhmhm... I'm surprised you've made it this far.

Cuvuli: Díthorba... The rest... is up to you...

Díthorba: Behold: You now face Díthorba, one of the Four Falcon Knights of Silesse! This is where your journey ends!

%Erinys,Díthorba
Díthorba: Ohohoho! Erinys, is it? Fancy seeing you here! Your head will make a fine gift for Lord Maios' mantelpiece!
Erinys: I'll never let you win here, Díthorba! I've come a long way from the Erinys you once knew!
Díthorba: Pfeh. Don't make me laugh! Once a weakling, always a weakling! Some things will never change!

@Boss 
Díthorba: N-no... What have I...

Maios: Come on, traitors! Grannvale's bounty on your heads is mine for the plucking!

%Lewyn,Maios
Maios: Keh... Look who's come crawling back. My dear sister-in-law's idiot son has returned at last.
Lewyn: Hello, Uncle. Time for you to die. After all, Silesse needs its future.

@Boss
Maios: Oof! This can't... be...

Pamela: Heh... Begone weakling!

%Lewyn,Pamela
Pamela: Oh. Prince Lewyn. It's been a while, hasn't it? I've some news for you. I've now surpassed Annand. Permanently. Ha ha ha...
Lewyn: Gah! Pamela! How dare you!
Pamela: I could say the same of you. After all, all of this is your fault!

%Erinys,Pamela
Pamela: Oh. It's just you, Erinys. You came back, did you?
Erinys: P-Pamela... PAMELA!! What you did to Annand is unforgivable!
Pamela: Hmph. That's rich, coming from a fledgling knight like you! Prepare yourself. You're about to join your dear, departed sister!

@Boss
Pamela: I-impossible...

Daccar: The throne of Silesse is mine, and mine alone! It is my birthright! Stand aside, loathsome gnats!

%Lewyn,Daccar
Daccar: Keh... Lewyn... Damn you!
Lewyn: How dare you, Daccar! How dare you murder Annand! Death is too good for the likes of you!
Daccar: What nerve! You die here and now, Lewyn!

@Boss
Daccar: Nngh... My... My dreams... They're...

Lamia: Hah! What a clumsy mistake, trying to fight me!

Lamia: N-no... How...

Donovan: Hahaha! Time for ya to die!

Donovan: Gah... You're... You're too strong...

Annand: I'm sorry. I know you're not to blame, but this must be done...

Annand: Aah... Erinys... Prince... Lewyn...
/***EOF***/
@Opening 
The two faces of the Thracian Peninsula are as distinct as night and day. The peninsula's north, once ruled by several small kingdoms, is graced with rich pastures, while the south, the Kingdom of Thracia, is a harsh wasteland dominated by vast mountains. In ages past, seeking to claim the life-giving northern land as their own, Thracia's infamous wyvern knights have led countless brash attempts to conquer the north, only to be repelled at every turn by the might of House Leonster. 

Thracia looked to have won at last following their slaughter of Leonster's army in the Yied Desert, only to be defeated in turn by Blume of Freege, who claimed the land as his own. And so, the so-called Kingdom of North Thracia was born as yet another servant of the Empire. Over a decade has passed since then. Not even Thracia's King Travant, an ambitious man with a thirst for power and glory, dares to challenge the will of the Empire, and so a strange peace looms over the region. 

Or so it did, until the arrival of Seliph and his liberation army. Blume's defeat at his own castle has abruptly tipped the balance of the Thracian stalemate. Both the Alster and Leonster territories now lie under the liberation army's control, forcing Blume to retreat to Conote and muster the strength to take Alster back. The southern Manster Castle, governed by the "goddess of lightning", Princess Ishtar, braces itself for the threat of Thracian invaders. 

Meanwhile, across the border itself, both King Travant and his border watchman, General Maykov of Meath Castle, remain eerily silent. The people are united in their fondest wish: for the entirety of the Thracian Peninsula to return to the rule of House Leonster. And so dawns yet another battle...

@Intro 
Blume: Nngh... Curses! Never did I imagine that the rebels could pose such a threat. Banba! How could the three of you let yourselves be cowed into fleeing? What a disgrace!
Banba: A thousand apologies, milord. However, you've nothing to worry about anymore. Even as we speak, General Muhammad prepares his brigade to lay siege to Alster, and General Ovo's cavalry are en route to Leonster. We, too, shall rejoin the fray shortly.
Blume: Hrm... Don't you dare fail me this time. And what of King Travant? Why are the promised Thracian reinforcements nowhere to be seen?
Banba: We've yet to receive any response to any of our messengers so far.
Blume: Gah... What in blazes is that snake thinking?
Banba: King Travant is an ambitious man. To blindly trust him would be foolish.
Blume: No matter. Even without his forces, we've more than enough power to stop the rebels cold. Banba! Fotla! Eriu! Move out at once. This time, leave not a single rebel alive!
Banba: Yes, milord. We will not fail.

Man: Sir Ced, please! We all can't take much more of King Blume's abuses! How long... How long will it be until Manster is free from the Empire?
Ced: Don't lose hope now! Even as we speak, Lord Seliph and his liberators are out there fighting for the District. They'll be here before long. Go! Tell your friends and family that your freedom is so very nearly in reach! Please, my friends, believe me. Manster's freedom is fast approaching!

Arion: Pardon me, Father, but King Blume is requesting our aid yet again. The Empire has already lost both Alster and Leonster to the Isaach rebels. He wishes to use us to help reclaim them.
Travant: The Isaach rebels are led by that Seliph brat... Sigurd's spawn, correct? Heh... Poor, poor Blume. He's getting so old, even little children are a thorn in his side! Pay Blume no heed, Arion. The Empire and the rebels are best left to break themselves on each other for now. We'll mop up the leftovers once they're nice and weak.
Arion: I should have known, Father... All along, you've been waiting out Blume's little storm, haven't you?
Travant: But of course! It'd make no sense to bend over backward for the man who snatched our hard-won north out from under our noses, would it? Leonster's downfall should have meant a peninsula unified under our rule... I'll neither forgive nor forget Blume's craven conquest.
Arion: Even now, we still lack the power to truly match Grannvale on an even battlefield... I can only imagine your frustration, Father.
Travant: Thracia's fate depends on a unified peninsula. The verdant northern soils are the perfect cure for the famine and poverty wracking our south. We've been shunned and vilified for centuries, dismissed as ravenous hyenas... Yet what choice did we ever have? If not for our answer to this world's craving for sellswords, Thracia would never have had the funds to barely survive as we do. We've toiled in poverty long enough, Arion. It's high time Thracia carved itself a future! A future, I might add, which depends on the outcome of the game laid before us...
Arion: Mm.

Lewyn: I have a bad feeling about this, Seliph... Is Leonster well guarded?
Seliph: I believe so, but then again, reinforcing it further certainly wouldn't hurt. Should I send them some support?
Lewyn: Do it. With Blume still on the loose in Conote, there's no sense in skimping on the defenses. Oh, and also, we've received a plea for help from the people of Manster Castle. The sooner our forces reach them, the better.
Seliph: Very well. We shall make the first move!

@Battle 
Muhammad: Move in on Alster Castle! We've nothing to fear from these rebels! If anyone dares to question my command, come forth and allow me to relieve your neck of your head! ...No volunteers? Good. Attack!

Ovo: Good, everything's ready. Men, we tear through Leonster's defenses in one fell swoop! We'll not let Muhammad's men put us to shame!

Banba: It is time, then... Fotla, Eriu, shall we proceed? We've no room for error this time.

Faval: What do you want, Blume?
Blume: Ah, Faval. So you came after all. I've been waiting for you.
Faval: Look, Blume. I'm a busy man. Tell me what you want, or I'm leaving.
Blume: Tch... Listen carefully. I've an employment opportunity for you.
Faval: ...An employment opportunity?
Blume: Yes, Faval. I require your services in putting down the rebel army.
Faval: Pass. I might be a mercenary, but I'm certainly not about to do your dirty work.
Blume: Oh, really? Then what will become of all those orphans in your care? Rumor has it your dear sister has taken to stealing the money you need to take care of them. Are you content with such a life?
Faval: I guess you're right... I dunno if I can take Patty risking her life like this much longer. And we do sorely need the gold...
Blume: Bring me Seliph's head, Faval, and you'll have all the gold your orphans will ever need and more. Your dear sister would approve.
Faval: ...Deal. I know this'll come back to bite me, but if it means saving the kids... You have my bow... just this once.

Ishtar: You summoned me, Father? How might I be of assistance?
Blume: Ishtar! What kept you so long? The rebels are preparing to launch another attack on me any moment now! I-I need you to protect me!
Ishtar: What's happened, Father? How could a pack of simple rebels get to you of all people? This is so very unlike you...
Blume: These are no mere rebels! They've already slaughtered Ishtore, and Tine is lost to us as well because of them... They've already defeated Banba and her sister... I can't leave this task to them again. You're all I have left to depend upon!
Ishtar: Understood, but I have one condition. I need the Book of Mjölnir. If I'm wielding Mjölnir, I won't need an army with me. I alone will be more than enough.
Blume: W-what?! You... want me to hand it over... Fine. Very well... You can take Mjölnir... But don't you dare fail me now!
Ishtar: You can trust me, Father. By your leave.

Julius: Ishtar. Return with me to Belhalla. You've no business dying in a place like this.
Ishtar: Oh! Lord Julius... ...But why are you-
Julius: Come, Ishtar. I need you.
Ishtar: Y-yes, milord! Anything you wish!

Lewyn: Looks like we just dealt a critical blow to the Empire's control of the area, Seliph. Their survivors are fleeing in droves!
Seliph: Excellent! I suspect liberating Manster has become far simpler than we'd hoped.
Lewyn: Don't get too excited just yet. The real problem here is still Thracia.
Seliph: What makes you think so? What would cause Thracia to break neutrality now, of all times?
Lewyn: You've never had to deal with King Travant before, have you? Just ask Prince Leif. If not for Travant, he would still have his parents. Travant's murder of them was a cruel ambush, an insult to the honor of a knight like Quan. Who knows what dirty game he's planning now...

Travant: Blume's gone and died, has he? Heh heh... At last! Thracia has been scrubbed clean of the Imperial taint! Now's our chance to help ourselves to the north, starting with Manster! Altena! I leave the capture of Manster to you. I'll send General Coulter with you. If anyone stands in your way, suppress them without a second thought. I don't care if it's a little kid with a wooden stick. Cut them down!
Altena: Hold on a moment, Father! I'm as eager to challenge the Empire as you are, but killing innocents makes no sense at all! We'd be much better served forging an alliance with the liberators. We're already surrounded by enemies. Why make more?
Travant: Altena! I have no interest in one of your little lectures. Keep your mouth shut and do as you're told!
Altena: But, Father-
Arion: Please, Altena. Just listen to him. Father and I must return to the capital. We've some further preparations to make. Best of luck holding our border, Altena.
Altena: Arion... Very well, I'll do it...
Travant: Then don't waste your time dawdling! Go!
Travant: She's finally gone? Good... Stubborn little thing, isn't she? I haven't seen a woman so brash since her mother... Quite the family resemblance there!
Arion: Father, surely you must realize that Altena means you no ill will. You needn't be so harsh on her.
Travant: Yes, that much is obvious, thank you! ...Let's head back to the capital, Arion. We need to ready the army to claim this peninsula as ours, once and for all! Maykov! Meath Castle is in your hands. Work with Altena's unit and defend the border, no matter what happens!
Maykov: Understood, milord!

Man: Dire news, Sir Ced! Thracia's dispatched a dracoknight unit from Meath, and they're coming our way!
Ced: Just our luck... We've only just finally cleared the Empire out of Manster, and now we've got Thracia to grapple with as well?! I suppose it was only a matter of time before Travant showed his true colors...
Man: The liberation army's sure to want to aid us, but they still haven't crossed the river! What do we do?
Ced: Everyone! Get out of here and run for Connaught! I'll stay here and fend off the wyvern knights for as long as I can.
Young woman: B-but that's impossible, Sir Ced! Not even you could survive a dracoknight assault by yourself!
Ced: I know, but I won't risk any lives but my own. Don't worry. I won't go down without bringing a few Thracians with me! Go on, please! We've no time to waste!
Young woman: Sir Ced...

Maykov: The rebels have made it to Manster? What in the blazes is Princess Altena doing? Men! Bolster our defensive line! Until His Majesty the King returns, we must protect the border at all costs!

Coulter: Is everything ready, my liege? We'll be closing in on Manster shortly. Let's waste no time in besieging them!
Altena: Hold, Coulter! Those are nothing more than common citizens standing in our way. Killing them would be the foulest of crimes. Wait here with the squad. I'll see if I can negotiate a surrender.
Coulter: You know I can't do that. My orders come from over your head. You may spout all the lovely nonsense you wish, but the king forbids me to stay my hand.
Altena: Are you questioning a direct order from your commander and your princess, General?!
Coulter: These are my men, princess! If you don't wish to partake yourself, then stand aside, make yourself useful and watch our backs! Now, then... Is everyone ready? All hands, prepare to strike Manster! Leave no survivors!
Altena: C-Coulter! Get back here at once!

Leif: Hold on a moment. Over there... Is that a dracoknight dame? She has such a sad look in her eyes...

@End 
Seliph: Julia?! You’re safe! Oh, thank heavens...
Julia: Mm... The enemy seized and imprisoned me here, but I knew... I knew you would rescue me, no matter what.

Seliph: The Thracians are on such a different level to anybody we've fought before, Lewyn. It almost feels as if each blow is fueled by pure desperation...
Lewyn: See, Thracia's always had a bad lot in life. Much of its land is consumed by mountains. Farming its own food is a near impossible task, so they struggle to keep themselves fed. Thracia's men seek mercenary work to find the money to stay alive, while its women are stuck in whatever dreary jobs they can dig up. Don't get me wrong, Seliph. King Travant is still an awful man, but there's far more than his own petty gain at stake in his schemes. The Thracian army is as loyal to Travant as they come. They ardently believe it's Travant who'll guide Thracia out of its endless famine.
Seliph: I see... That does make sense...
Lewyn: The thing is, no amount of poverty will ever justify Thracia's aggression. Travant's brand of nobility and justice would never be accepted anywhere else in the world. All the peninsula's north can see are rowdy aggressors, who threaten their peaceful lives. As harsh as it may seem, Seliph, I trust you know you can't afford to stay your hand here. The Thracian royal family is the enemy, and a grave threat to the north's peace. Stripping them of power is the only choice. That task falls to us, and we can't fail now.

Altena: The liberators have seized Meath?! Could I have been wrong about them? Oh, Arion.

@Visit 
Young woman: Ohh, thank you so much! I've heard all the stories about your army, and I've been praying that you'd come someday. Lord Seliph is our beacon of hope! Here, take this power ring. It's not much, but it's all we have to show our gratitude.

Young woman: Long ago, Thracia and the states of the Manster District were a single nation. 'Course, you'd never know that from how they've hated each other so for as long as anyone can recall! I wish they could just try to make peace...

Young man: Gaah! I-I don't believe it... The Connaught Hitman's back for more blood! Run, everyone! Run for it!
Asaello: ...
Girl: ...
Asaello: Er... Shouldn't you be running, too?
Girl: But you look so sad, mister...
Asaello: ...I do?
Girl: Take these! We picked up all these fruits in the woods. Eat 'em! They'll make you grow up big and strong! I hope you feel better soon!
Asaello: Thanks, kid...

Man: I've heard tell that over in Manster, people're planning a revolt against the Imperial rule. Apparently the ringleader there's some Silessian mage called Ced... The people there are so sure that he's the man for the job. Of course, the real problem for Manster is that Thracia's got their grubby eyes on the city... I hope they'll be alright.

Woman: For as long as anyone can recall, Thracia's wanted to claim this region as their own. And for just as long, House Leonster always stood in their way, wielding their holy lance Gáe Bolg to defend our lands. At least, until Gáe Bolg was lost a decade ago in the Yied Desert... The Thracians ambushed and murdered Prince Quan, his wife Ethlyn, and their daughter Altena as they crossed Yied, and the lance vanished...

Old man: It was the legendary dracoknight Dain who founded Thracia all those years ago... With his heavenly lance, Gungnir, in hand, he dared to challenge the king of demons himself! Rumor has it that Nova of the crusaders, ancestor of the lords of House Leonster, was in fact a sister to Lord Dain... 

Old woman: Hoo hoo! What brings you all the way out here? You must be quite the curious one! Either way, I want to thank you for coming all this way for such a small and remote town. This here trinket's a thief's band. She's an odd little thing: slip her on and you'll soon find yourself stealing like you've done it all your life. Hoo hoo hoo! Take care of yourself, dearie.

@Battle-Talk 
%Seliph,Julia
Julia: Lord Seliph...
Seliph: Oh, Julia. Is something the matter?
Julia: I... I'm scared... I sense an evil presence... Something dark... And it's closing in...
Seliph: What do you mean?
Julia: (slowly) ...Seliph... Be on your guard... Ishtar is a fierce foe... You cannot fight her... You must not...
Seliph: Julia! What's happening to you?!
Julia: Ahh... I... W-what in the world just...?
Seliph: Julia... You're...

%Arthur,Fee
Arthur: You need to be careful, Fee. I know you can fly and all, but that doesn't mean you should just take off by yourself.
Fee: Oh? Are my ears playing tricks on me? Could it be you're actually worried about me, Arthur?
Arthur: Er... Yeah, I suppose so.
Fee: Hmmm! Who knew you had it in you? I never would've guessed that you're even able to worry about anyone but yourself! I might have to rethink everything just a bit!
Arthur: Well, er, you're something of a special case...
Fee: Huh?
Arthur: Er, never mind! Anyway, just don't do anything too rash, alright? See you...
Fee: Arthur...

%Finn,Leif
Finn: Lord Leif, the protection of the peninsula realm is our duty as House Leonster's remnants. We aren't in for an easy battle, but no matter what happens, we must persevere.
Leif: I know, Finn. I've always dreamed that this day, the day of Leonster's freedom, would come... I'll do all I can to bring peace to the peninsula and save the people from King Blume's tyranny. To fulfill Father's final wishes at last... And if I need to lay down my life to make our dream a reality, then so be it...
Finn: Please, my lord! It ill befits a future king to do something so rash! You mustn't say such things!
Leif: Er, you're right... Sorry, Finn. I know how hard you had to work to protect me from the Empire's pursuit in my youth. I recall how often you'd let yourself starve, just so I wouldn't have to go without food... All my life you've made sacrifice after sacrifice for my sake, and only now do I understand this... I'll always be grateful for all you've done, Finn.
Finn: My lord, the Thracian region has been plagued by strife for generations, but your father dared to dream of uniting it under a lasting peace. He may be gone, but you still yet live, and so too does the hope of fulfilling his dream. Only you stand a chance of uniting Thracia.

%Patty,Faval
Patty: Hang on... Faval?! What d'you think you're doing? Ugh... Don't tell me you actually let Blume buy out your bow arm!
Faval: Patty? Wait... Why are you with the rebels?
Patty: To protect people, of course! We've come this far working together, and I know we're gonna stop Blume for good! I don't get it. Did you just go and forget everything? That if it wasn't for the Empire's cruelty, none of the kids would be orphans? But no, here you are, kissing up to the very same man who ruined all our friends' lives! What the heck were you thinking, Faval?
Faval: You're absolutely right... I'm so sorry, Patty. I guess I just wasn't thinking at all.
Patty: Any scumbag can apologize till their blue in the face! If you're really sorry, then get over here! Come help us fight for peace!
Faval: Alright, Patty. I'm with you. You've certainly come a long way lately...
Patty: Hee hee... I guess I have!

%Faval,Seliph
Faval: Prince Seliph? Please, sir, forgive my foolishness!
Seliph: Faval, yes? Patty has already told me your story. Relax! I understand why you did what you did. You've nothing to worry about.
Faval: I don't think so, sir. Letting myself work for the very same Empire I've supposedly been opposing? That was shamefully half-witted of me... Sir, I swear I'll make up for my bad choices. I'll do everything I can to aid you!
Seliph: Thank you, Faval. I'm glad to have you.

%Seliph,Tine
Seliph: Pardon me, Tine. I don't suppose you're acquainted with Princess Ishtar?
Tine: I am... When I was growing up, Ishtar was like a sister to me. She was one of the few who treated me well...
Seliph: Would you have any idea who the man who came to collect her was, then?
Tine: That... was most likely Prince Julius.
Seliph: The crown prince himself?! Are you certain?
Tine: I think so, yes. The two are a couple. That would be why he...
Seliph: Have you met Prince Julius before, then?
Tine: Once or twice, when I visited Belhalla. He... How can I put this... He has this odd charm which draws people to him... only for them to find that he's colder than ice. He's terrifying! If I didn't know better, I would swear he isn't even human...

%Nanna,Ares
Nanna: Hey! You’re Ares, right?
Ares: I am. What do you want?
Nanna: I’ve been hearing how you’re the son of Eldigan. Is there any truth to that?
Ares: There is. Of what concern is it yours?
Nanna: Oh, I knew it was true! I’m Nanna. I’m the daughter of Lachesis, Lord Eldigan’s sister!
Ares: C-can this be?! Are you truly my aunt’s child?
Nanna: Of course I am! You know, my mother was really worried about what happened to you. It must’ve been her search for you that brought us to Leonster all those years ago.
Ares: My father knew well that the stormclouds of a brutal civil war lurked over Agustria. I was a mere infant and my mother was in poor health, so he bade her to seek refuge with her parents in Leonster. Alas, Leonster too fell afoul of a war of its own, and my mother lost her life to the Empire’s invasion.
Nanna: That’s where Jabarro comes in, right?
Ares: Indeed. Jabarro found me and took me in as his own, and with his mercenary corps, I travelled the world and learned the art of war.
Nanna: So that’s why I’ve never found you before... Listen, Ares. My mother left me something to give to you if we ever met.
Ares: Oh? ...What is this? Is this... Is this Father’s?!
Nanna: It is! It’s a letter from Lord Eldigan, and it’s addressed to you, Ares.
Ares: I can’t believe it... 
Nanna: This should sort everything out! It says your father and Sigurd were the closest of friends and held each other’s deepest trust. This never changed, no matter what...
Ares: So it says... Wow, I... I’ve been so, so wrong for all this time...
Nanna: I hope you’ll look after Lord Seliph, Ares. He really is depending on you!
Ares: I will, I promise you... Say, Nanna. How would you like a quick lesson in swordplay? Here, pay close attention... 

%Seliph,Mana
Mana: Milord...
Seliph: Ah, Mana. Is something the matter?
Mana: Er, see... I’m scared, milord. I mean, when we first left Isaach I was excited as anybody, but now... I watch everyone risking their lives over and over, and I...I know that sooner or later, it’ll be one of us who dies next. 
Seliph: Mana... 
Mana: You saw what the thunder mage did when we defeated her, didn’t you, milord? She just vanished in the blink of an eye! There’s something else at work here... An evil power beyond anything we know!
Seliph: ...You aren’t alone, Mana. I’ve tried to hide it, but to be frank, I’m terrified as well. Often I find myself too fearful to sleep... Sometimes, the fear is so overwhelming that I wish I could run away... Just leave Jugdral and its troubles behind me. But I cannot... I will not. You saw the faces of the people when we freed Alster and Connaught, did you not? The very instant that we’d won, they were so overjoyed that they burst into tears! That’s how much freedom from the Empire means to them. We are the ones with the power to save Jugdral, Mana, and we must not shirk from that duty. 
Mana: ...I’m so sorry, milord. I shouldn’t have made you worry like that. I’ll always give your cause all I have. I promise. But please, milord... Please be careful! I don’t know what we’d do without you... 
Seliph: Thank you, Mana. And I... I don’t know what I’d do without you. 
Mana: Oh... Milord... 

%Seliph,Ced
Seliph: Ced the Brave, I presume? I couldn't possibly thank you enough for all you've done for the people of Manster.
Ced: Lord Seliph... I'm so glad you're here at last. Sire, I implore you! Save this world! Too many of us have already given into despair... The city of Manster has been robbed by the Empire of countless young children. All were sent to the shrines in Miletos... I... I couldn't save even a single child. Me, brave? Hah! I hardly deserve such a lofty label. I'm just another coward...
Seliph: That isn't true, Ced! If I were to fight alone, I know that there'd be precious little that I could do. It was uniting the strength of my friends, a team effort, which brought us this far! And I believe that your strength could be a valuable part of our cause. Please, Ced the Brave. Grant us your power!
Ced: Thank you, sire... You'll have my loyalty, no matter what!

%Ced,Seliph
Ced: Huh?! Er, pardon me, Lord Seliph, but... ...That man standing by your side...
Seliph: Ah, Ced. I'd like you to meet Lewyn, my tactician.
Ced: Lewyn? I knew it. That's my father...
Lewyn: Oh, Ced. I guess you've found me. Been a while, huh? How's things?
Ced: How's things? HOW'S THINGS?! Father, don't you realize? I've been searching for you for all this time! Do you even realize how long it's been since you ran away from home?
Lewyn: Oh, yeah. I guess it has been a few years... Hey, how's Erinys doing these days?
Ced: How dare you... Mother is DEAD! All we ever wanted was for her to see you one last time before she died... That's why I've been looking for you!
Lewyn: Huh... Erinys... Such a shame, too...
Ced: Are you capable of any emotion at all, Father?! You just heard your wife's dead, and you won't so much as shed a tear... And what about Fee? You've hurt her so much! It still pains her... She's adamant that she won't speak to you. You've known she was here all along, Father. Why didn't you try to fix this?
Lewyn: Look, Ced. I left my old life behind long ago for a reason. That goes for my wife and kids, too. End of story. That's all there is to it.
Ced: ...Father?!

%Fee,Ced
Fee: Ced...? Cedsy! It IS you!
Ced: Fee?! What are you doing here? Is something the matter?
Fee: I've been looking for you, of course! I mean, you've been gone from Silesse for so long, and we had no idea where you were!
Ced: I know, Fee, and I'm sorry... See, what happened was I was passing through Manster in my search for Father. I would've moved on, but the people's plight was nothing short of heartbreaking. I couldn't just leave Manster to waste away...
Fee: I should've known. That is so like you, Cedsy! And here I was, almost starting to forget why you're so incredible.
Ced: You're with the liberation army, then?
Fee: Yep! I just knew I had to help Lord Seliph.
Ced: Is that so... You're even more like Mother than I thought! Not once in her life did she ever turn her back on someone in need.
Fee: You're just like her, too, Cedsy... Poor Mom, though. Just thinking about how Dad left her... It makes me so mad!
Ced: Mm... I still can't make sense of his actions. What could he have possibly been thinking...

%Femina,Hawke
Femina: Hawke...? Hawkesy! It IS you!
Hawke: Femina?! What are you doing here? Is something the matter?
Femina: I've been looking for you, of course! I mean, you've been gone from Silesse for so long, and we had no idea where you were!
Hawke: I know, Femina, and I'm sorry... See, what happened was I was passing through Manster in my search for Father. I would've moved on, but the people's plight was nothing short of heartbreaking. I couldn't just leave Manster to waste away...
Femina: I should've known. That is so like you, Hawkesy! And here I was, almost starting to forget why you're so incredible.
Hawke: You're with the liberation army, then?
Femina: Yep! I just knew I had to help Lord Seliph.
Hawke: Is that so... I should have known. After all these years you’ve spent admiring Sigurd, it was inevitable you’d want to aid his son.
Femina: Yep! I’ve always dreamed of being a pegasus knight as great as the legendary Lady Erin. Just watch me, Hawkesy. I’ll get there someday! 

@Battle
Fee: Whew! What a view, huh? I wonder if I can spot Cedsy from here... Hey, you alright, Mahnya? Ready to fly yet? Y'know, Mahnya, you're named for my aunt... She was one of the greatest Silessian heroines. I bet that name's why you just don't give up. Don't you worry. The very instant everything's peaceful again, We'll be going right back home to Silesse! And once it's all done... Hee hee! Maybe I'll find someone really cute, and we'll spend the rest of our lives together! But I guess we've got a little more work to do before the guys or girls come along! Come on, Mahnya!

Jake: A human! Oh, I’m saved!
Linda: What’s the matter?
Jake: See, I was on my way to join the liberation army, but all I’ve managed to do is get myself lost... What brings you to this gods-forsaken place?
Linda: I’m with Lord Seliph’s army, fighting to bring peace to the land.
Jake: Really? Hah! What are the odds? I get lost trying to find the liberators, only to find one of ‘em here, of all places... I, er, was actually headed home now. It’s embarrassing, I know, but all this has scared the life out of me. I bet my dear, sweet Anna is worried sick too...
Linda: That’s a pity... I would have liked to have had you on our side... 
Jake: Y’know, the real problem is those ballistae. One glimpse of those, and I freeze right up! I can’t say I’d have been much use to you at all, had I joined you. Oh, right! What’s your name, anyway?
Linda: I’m Linda... 
Jake: Linda? That sounds awfully familiar... Though, are you sure you’re spelling it right? Never mind, I suppose. Here, take this talisman for your trouble. I certainly won’t be needing it anymore!
Linda: Thank you... 
Jake: Well, best of luck out there. Naga bless you, miss!

Jake: A human! Oh, I’m saved!
Amid: Is everything alright?
Jake: It’s kind of a long story... A very, very long story. See, I got myself kind of lost around these parts, but this kid from the liberators called Linda helped me get back on my way. But then, pathetic as I am, I went and got myself lost all over again!
Amid: Is that right? Linda’s my sister. The name’s Amid, and don’t worry. I’ll do what I can to get you out of here.
Jake: Wait, really? You’re seriously Linda’s brother? Ahahaha! What are the odds of that? ...Gods, I’m hopeless...
Amid: Listen, don’t worry about it. Everything’ll be fine. Just follow me. If we’re attacked, get down and I’ll take care of everything.
Jake: ...Wow. What a great guy. Like brother, like sister, huh...
Amid: Hey, I’m sure you’d do the same. 
Jake: Trust me, you really are a good person... Here, I want you to take this talisman with you. Heh... I gave one to your sister, but I actually had a spare just in case!
Amid: Oh, thanks. I really appreciate this. 
Jake: Right! I’m going to make it home, and then I’m going to see to it that Anna and I have a kid who’s every bit as kind as you!
Amid: You’ll never get to do that if you don’t make it out of these mountains, huh? Follow me!
Jake: H-hey! Could you slow down a bit?! I can’t keep up with you like this!

@Boss 
Muhammad: Keh... You rebel scum...

Muhammad: We... We've been defeated so easily...? King Blume... I beg your forgiveness...

Ovo: I'm impressed you've come so far... But this is the end for you!

Ovo: I-impossible...

Eriu: Taste the wrath of thunder, rebel!

Eriu: Banba... Fotla... Is this.... the end?

Fotla: Taste the howling gale, traitor!

Fotla: Nngh... Blasted rebels...

Banba: Taste raging flames, brigand!

Banba: Ahh... What a shame... Fotla... Eriu...

Eriu: Banba! Fotla! Ready? This time, no mistakes! ...Triangle Attack!!

Fotla: Banba! Eriu! This time, without fail! ...Triangle Attack!!

Banba: Fotla! Eriu! This time, we're ready! ...Triangle Attack!!

Blume: What in the blazes is happening out there?! You rebel scum... You'll have no mercy from me!

%Seliph,Blume
Blume: Y-you! You're Sigurd's whelp... You won't leave here alive!
Seliph: I believe that's my line, King Blume. You've nowhere to run this time!
Blume: Curses... I'll drag you down to the grave with me, whelp!

%Tine,Blume
Blume: Tine... How dare you, you spoiled, ungrateful brat!
Tine: Spoiled? If it weren't for you, my mother wouldn't have been driven to her death... Don't you dare claim to have forgotten!
Blume: Gah...

%Faval,Blume
Blume: Faval! What in the blazes do you think you're doing?! You traitorous slime!
Faval: Yeah, sorry about that, but I realize that I'd much rather die than help you. Too bad it's you who'll die instead.
Blume: Gah... I'm surrounded by buffoons...

@Boss 
Blume: Nngh... How... regrettable...

@Recruit-Battle 
Faval: I'm so sorry... But we sorely need the gold...

Faval: Oh, Patty... Forgive your... fool of a brother...

%Patty,Faval
Faval: Wait... Patty?! No, this... It's not what it looks like!

@Boss 
Ishtar: I wish I didn't have to do this... But you shall go no further!

Ishtar: Ahh! Lord Julius...

%Tine,Ishtar
Ishtar: Wait... Tine? What do you think you're doing?!
Tine: Ishtar... I... I'm so sorry...
Ishtar: You've turned traitor, then? I'm disappointed in you, Tine!

@Battle 
Young woman: Please, we beg of you... Do all you can to help sir Ced!

Young woman: Thank you so much, noble warrior!

Young woman: Thracia's wyvern knights are still on the prowl 'round these parts. Be careful, won't you...

Young man: You're with Lord Seliph's liberators? Gods be praised! You've come at last.

Young man: Three cheers for Lord Seliph!

Young man: We're saved! Oh, thank you!

@Boss 
Coulter: Heh heh... What a pity it is for you, that this is where you die!

Coulter: Gaaah! May Thracia... rise in glory...

Maykov: This land is the rightful land of the Kingdom of Thracia! You will never take it from us!

Maykov: Guh... Glory... to Thracia...
/***EOF***/
@Opening 
At the heart of the continent of Jugdral lies Grannvale, a kingdom founded by Saint Heim of the Twelve Crusaders. 

Supporting the royal family, the heirs of Heim, are six noble houses, each also descended from a Crusader of old. The six states, while still subservient to the royal family, each occupy vast swaths of Grannvale's land and maintain mighty militaries of their own. 

Owing to King Azmur's advanced age, the governance of Grannvale falls to his son, the highly respected Prince Kurth. 

Kurth has two trusted advisors in his rule: Lord Byron of House Chalphy, and Lord Ring of House Jungby. Grannvale's chancellor, Lord Reptor of Friege, has long objected to the thread to his influence posed by Kurth and his advisors, and has allied himself with the avaricious Lord Langobalt of House Dozel to form a faction opposed to Kurth's rule over Grannvale. 

The young duke of House Velthomer, Lord Arvis, leads the Royal Guard in the king's care and so has little time for the circus of politics. Only Father Claude of House Edda, could foresee the oncoming storm. Into the midst of this tense situation, comes dire news from Jugdral's east. Darna, a town in the Aed Desert with deep ties to Grannvale, is now besieged by savage warriors from Isaach. Reports of a brutal massacre abound. 

The news is met by the people of Grannvale with furious cries for retribution, and before long the kingdom declares war on Isaach. Prince Kurth leads Grannvale's charge on his father's behalf, commanding the military might of the kingdom's six houses. 

At Kurth's side as always is none other than Lord Byron, a highly decorated hero of peerless valor in his own right. 

Grannvale has poured its entire military might into the Isaach campaign, and precious few soldiers remain behind. With its neighbors - Agustria to the west and Verdane to the south - bound in alliance with Grannvale, none dare to dream they could ever be threatened. 

It is not long at all, however, before he people's confidence is shattered. As if from nowhere, a vast horde from Verdane led by Prince Gandolf crosses the Grannvale border and lays siege to Jungby Castle. In Lord Ring's absence, his daughter, Lady Aideen, is Jungby's only guardian. Lord Byron has entrusted the defense of Grannvale in his absence to his son, Sigurd, who remains at Chalphy Castle with a mere handful of soldiers. A friend of Aideen since childhood, Sigurd is horrified to hear of the Jungby siege, and even with so few soldiers, is determined to protect Aideen and his fatherland from the savage Verdanite hordes. 

The year is 757, Grann calendar. And thus the threshold of fate is cast open. Nobody could have known then that this simple disturbance was but the first of countless calamities to come.

@Intro 
Midir: Milady, the castle is completely surrounded! We've failed you... We couldn't do a thing to save you from them...
Aideen: It's alright, Midir. ...Every one of you did the best you could do. Please, you needn't worry about me. You must ensure that as many of you survive this as possible.
Midir: No, milady. We might not stand a chance, but every last one of us will give our lives to protect you, right to the very end.
Aideen: Thank you, Midir. ...I'm so sorry.

Sigurd: Gandolf's army already has Jungby surrounded. Aideen is in grave danger! Noish, I'm going to help her. I'm leaving Chalphy in your hands.
Noish: Hold, milord. Surely you don't intend to go alone?
Sigurd: Nearly all of our forces are already on the march to Isaach with Father. There's hardly anybody left to call upon. They may be simple savages, but Verdane's army is still huge. I can't risk your lives by forcing you to face them.
Noish: Perish the thought, milord! I was born a knight, and I will gladly risk dying a knight's death in your name. To allow our lord to die alone in battle would be an unspeakable disgrace. We shall be by your side, every step of the way. Alec, I trust you're of the same mind?
Alec: Yeah, of course! But there's more than just Jungby at stake. We've got to stop by the nearby villages first. Those thugs'll try to beat us to them, and they'll loot, massacre, and burn them all down if they do. We've gotta get there first, and lend the locals a hand in locking the villages down and fortifying their defenses. 
Sigurd: Absolutely. We mustn't neglect our knightly duties to the people, especially not at a time like this. Good point, Alec. 
Alec: Actually, that was all Oifey's idea. That kid's every bit the tactician they say he is. Give him a few years and he'll be a match for his old grandpa, Lord Sesar!
Sigurd: Oifey's still around the castle, huh... Oifey! I know you're here. You can come out now!
Oifey: My apologies for still being here, sire. Still, if you would allow it, I'd like to join you in battle. I can't just sit back while you risk your lives.
Sigurd: I don't know... You're still so young. Are you sure you're ready for this?
Oifey: I'm already fourteen, sire. I may not be battle-ready just yet, but there's still so much I can do to support you. Please, allow me to accompany you. I swear I won't let you down.
Sigurd: Fair enough, Oifey. After all, you've already spent two years training as my squire. Real battlefield experience would be fantastic for your training, but you're still definitely not up to actual combat duty for now. How about you ride with me as my advisor instead?
Oifey: Y-yes! Thank you, sire! Thank you!
Noish: Milord, what of the the defense of Chalphy itself in our absence? Leaving the castle unattended is risky. Should the enemy slip past us, an unguarded castle will fall easily and spell us a swift end.
Alec: Noish, I'd say there's only one man who we can depend upon for that... Eh, Arden?
Arden: Hold on a moment! Why me, Alec?
Alec: Sturdy as a brick wall! Strong as an ox! Slow as a turtle! Face it, Arden, you were born for guard duty! Haha!
Arden: Pah... I'm strong and tough, I know, but you really don't need to call me slow!
Sigurd: He has a point, Arden. Would you? You're the most apt at guard duty.
Arden: Sigh... Fine, I'll do it. But you have to bring me with you at least once! I don't want to be left out of the action.
Sigurd: Right, men, it's time to set out. Let's start by assisting the villages, and then it's onward to Jungby!

@Battle 
Oifey: Sire, might I recommend stopping by the castle town once you're rested? To see you unharmed should help to calm and reassure your citizens.

Gandolf: You curs seriously haven't seized this puny castle yet? Useless, the lot of you... Outta my way! I'll do it myself!
Gandolf: Kehehe... You! Not bad for being here all on your lonesome, but I've had enough of your struggling!

Midir: Urgh... Milady, I... Forgive me...
Aideen: Ah! Midir, I...
Gandolf: Well, well, looks like we have quite the gem here, and Jungby's princess to boot! You're coming home with me, dearie. Listen up, DiMaggio. I'm heading back. You and Gerrard are in charge.
DiMaggio: Er, yes, sir...
Gandolf: Hah, relax! Won't be long, and I'll be bringing Kinbois's lot along for the fun. When I do, all Grannvale's our oyster. Even Belhalla ought to be easy pickings, what with nobody around to stop us! The kingdom's all ours, boys!
DiMaggio: Leave it to us, sir!

Gandolf: Oi, quit your dawdling! We don't have all day, y'know!
Aideen: ...

Gandolf: Cut the bridge! I'll have none of those Grannvale worms crossing over here!
Barbarian: Yes, sir.

Gandolf: Oi, Gerrard. I'm going back to Marpha for now. You're in charge of the border. Stay sharp, we clear?
Gerrard: Yes, sir. But, er, your lordship... Who's that there dame you have?
Gandolf: The spoils of war, m'boy! She's coming back to Marpha to marry me. Whaddya think? A real keeper, eh?
Gerrard: I'll say! Just looking at her's makin' me mouth water.
Gandolf: Back off! This one's mine. You'll have your pick of all Grannvale once we're done here. Keep it in your pants a little longer, yeah?
Aideen: What animals... ...Gods above, I implore you, bestow upon these men a hint of human decency...
Gandolf: Oi, what're you mumbling about now? We're outta here. No dawdling, y'hear?

DiMaggio: Get to work, boys! Our next stop's Chalphy. Don't forget to milk the villages for all they got!

Azelle: It looks like we made it just in time, Lex.
Lex: Mm. And by the look of it, Sigurd's staring down the entire Verdane army with just a handful of men! Bet he'll be glad for the help! But geez, Azelle, I can't believe I let you drag me into yet another mess like this.
Azelle: With the war in Isaach going on, there's hardly anyone left to defend Grannvale. Sigurd's few knights are all we have, and they're out here risking their lives on behalf of the entire country. I couldn't just leave them to die...
Lex: Heh... We both know there's more to it than that. Come on, Azelle. What's the real reason we're here?
Azelle: Er... I... I have no idea what you mean!
Lex: It's that Lady Aideen of Jungby, isn't it? Come on, everybody knows you like her. You just came for her sake, didn't you?
Azelle: N-no! Of course not, you dolt!
Lex: Really? Then why's your face beet-red? Looks like somebody's got a giiiiiiirlfriend!
Azelle: L-Lex, knock it off! Come on, we've wasted enough time.
Lex: Hahaha, got it. Time to teach these Verdanite thugs a lesson or two!

Quan: Good, we aren't too late. I pray Sigurd is still unhurt.
Ethlyn: Mm. I'm sure my brother's doing just fine out here, but it won't be easy without a magic user in his ranks. I want to do all I can as a healer to help out and save lives... Quan, I'm sorry I dragged you into this mess as well... I know Chalphy isn't my family anymore, now that we're married, but I couldn't just sit back and do nothing. Thank you so much for coming. Not just from me, but from Sigurd.
Quan: There's no need for thanks, Ethlyn. Sigurd is every bit as important to me as he is you, remember? He is my brother-in-law now, after all. ...And I couldn't possibly leave you to fight all alone.
Ethlyn: Thank you, dear... Thank you so much...
Finn: Milord, milady, we should hurry. Lord Sigurd still awaits us on the battlefield just ahead.

Oifey: Sire, there's a young knight collapsed over there!
Sigurd: Oh? ...That's Midir! Midir, hold on! What happened here?
Midir: Uh... You... ...Lord... Sigurd?
Sigurd: Are you alright, Midir? Where's Aideen?!
Midir: I... don't know. But Gandolf...
Sigurd: Gandolf... That's all I need to hear. Midir, I'll do all I can to rescue her. You stay here and rest up.
Midir: I can't, sir. I've got to help! I can't stand staying here, knowing those thugs still have her!

Gerrard: DiMaggio stuffed up, huh? Shoulda known he was worthless! Prince Gandolf's not gonna like this. Put the bridge back up, boys! We ain't gonna blow it like DiMaggio!

Arvis: When His Majesty asked me to observe the battle, I hardly expected to see Chalphy struggle so against simple barbarians. Sigurd... So this is all you've amounted to...

@End 
Oifey: Sire, we've completed our search of the castle. Lady Aideen is nowhere to be found.
Sigurd: Blast... Where could she be?
Oifey: She was most likely taken deeper into Verdane before we arrived. ...I hope she's alright.
Sigurd: Gah... I won't let them get away with this... They can run, but until they surrender Aideen, they won't escape me!
Oifey: Sire, an envoy from His Majesty is seeking an audience with you.
Filat: Lord Sigurd, your performance in this battle was outstanding. His Majesty is highly pleased, and has thus proclaimed your ordination as a paladin of the realm.
Sigurd: I hardly deserve such an honor, sir! I pledge my undying fealty to His Majesty.
Filat: From here, it is imperative that you hold Evans. We can ill afford to lose such a valuable defensive point to the enemy. You and your men shall be handsomely paid for your service. Provided, of course, that our territory survives unscathed. Best of luck, Lord Sigurd. Grannvale expects every man to do his duty.

@Visit 
Man: Oh, thank the gods! We're saved! We can't thank you enough! Here - the whole village did their bit to raise some money for you. It's not much, but we hope it helps out there. Be sure to lend the other villagese a hand, too. I bet they'll be happy to help you our right back.

Old man: Pay attention, kid! Weapons aren't created equal. See, swords best axes, axes best lances, and lances best swords. This right here's why you've gotta use your head before you blunder into battle. Speaking of battle, if you ever find yourself hurting out there, a chapel is the best place to go. It ain't free, mind. Every bit of health you regain there'll cost five gold pieces. But you can't put a price on your health.

Old woman: Oh? You came to save us? I was so sure this was the end! Take this little trinket. It's the least I can do. They call it a speed ring. Slip this magic band on and you'll be as nimble as a feather! Go on, try her out! Your enemies'll be too slow to hit you!

Old man: The master archers of House Jungby all bear descent from the archery god, Ulir. Our noble duke, Lord Ring, has twin daughters as well as a younger son. Alas, the duke lost one of the girls to pirates, years and years ago... She was just a little lass... Lady Aideen's still here, but the son Lord Andorey is away with his lord father on the Isaach campaign. Rumor has it, though, that the two aren't getting along well now that the boy's grown...

Woman: The lords of this land, House Chalphy, have been revered as most magnificent swordsmen for generations. It's no wonder, being that they bear the bloodline of Baldr, the god of light of old. Those Verdane thugs are lucky Lord Byron isn't around with his holy sword, Tyrfing. They wouldn't stand a chance!

@Battle-Talk 
%Azelle,Sigurd
Azelle: Lord Sigurd! I'm so relieved to see you're unharmed.
Sigurd: Azelle? Azelle of Velthomer? What are you doing here?
Azelle: I'm here with Lex. We want to do whatever we can to fight the Verdanite invasion. Please, allow us to fight by your side. We won't let you down!
Sigurd: Of course! I couldn't ask for better help. But what of your brother, Lord Arvis? Is he alright with you helping out?
Azelle: No... He's been tasked with command of the Royal Guard. He made it clear that I wasn't supposed to leave Belhalla at all.
Sigurd: Did he, now? I can only imagine the scolding that you'll be in for later!
Azelle: I know this is a dreadful thing to say, but to be honest, I'm terrified of Arvis... Sometimes, when I'm around him, I... I feel as if I'm only a nuisance to him.
Sigurd: Is that right... Well, whatever your reasons, I'm just glad that you're here, Azelle. You're more than welcome to stay for as long as you want.
Azelle: Thank you, sir!
Azelle: Wow, he's just like all the rumors say! He's nothing like Arvis...

%Lex,Sigurd
Lex: It's been a while, huh, Lord Sigurd?
Sigurd: Lex! I take it you're here to help as well?
Lex: Yeah, Azelle dragged me into it. I swear, I can't say no to that twerp!
Sigurd: Hahaha... You haven't changed a bit, have you, Lex? But what about your father, Lord Langobalt? Does he know you've come here?
Lex: Oh, hell no! You know as well as I how much my father loathes yours. There's no way he'd ever let me help House Chalphy, even if his life depended on it. I had to slip out behind his back. Just so we're clear, Sigurd, I'm not here for you. Azelle's my best friend, and he really wanted to help. That's all.
Sigurd: Heh. A bit harsh, but thanks for coming all the same. Any help is greatly appreciated.
Lex: Well, I'll do what I can. Those Verdane dogs have had their run of our land for long enough!

%Quan,Sigurd
Quan: Sigurd! Glad to see you in one piece.
Sigurd: Quan? What are you-
Quan: We heard about the Verdane attack and couldn't just leave you be. We're here to do what we can.
Sigurd: But what about Leonster? Aren't your hands full there, keeping an eye on Thracia?
Quan: Indeed. That's why Finn is the only knight here with me. The Lanceritter are all back at home, under Father's command.
Sigurd: Is that so... Quan, I'm sorry for pulling you into this mess, too. I know you're-
Quan: Sorry? Surely you jest, Sigurd? Don't you recall our old pledge?
Sigurd: Hm?
Quan: Come now! How could you forget? All those years ago, when we were students at the Belhalla academy? You, me, and Eldigan. Dear friends and fierce rivals in equal measure? Surely you recall that night, talking late about our hopes and dreams, and pledging our aid to one another in times of need?
Sigurd: Ah, of course! I remember it well.
Quan: Excellent. Now shall we? With both of us here, what hope could those Verdanite savages possibly have? Never forget, Sigurd. I'm here for you, now and forever. I'll not let you lose to these lowlives!

%Ethlyn,Sigurd
Ethlyn: Sigurd! Oh, you're unharmed!
Sigurd: It's great to see you, too, Ethlyn. Thanks so much for coming.
Ethlyn: I just couldn't stay away when I heard of Verdane's attacks... It's such a relief to know you're okay.
Sigurd: Oh, come now. Did you really think I was about to lose to Verdane?
Ethlyn: I'd heard that Chalphy barely has any soldiers left behind, given that most of the army is away in Isaach. And let's face it, I can't remember the last time you didn't just leap straight into a crisis without thinking. With father away at war... I knew I had to come. Someone has to save you from yourself, after all.
Sigurd: Heh heh. Wow, it feels as if I was getting this very lecture only yesterday! I swear, after Mother passed away, it was you who single-handedly kept us in check. Once you went off to marry Quan, we could've sworn that Father finally had a proper little lady for a daughter... But no, nothing's changed at all! I feel so sorry for Quan... Ahahaha!
Ethlyn: Sigurd, I'm only what you and Father made me! If I'm a fusspot, then it's squarely your fault! Perhaps if the two of you hadn't been so unkempt...
Sigurd: Heh, perhaps you're right. Listen, Ethlyn... We might not act like it, but everything you've done means the world to us. I'm so sorry for all the trouble I've always caused you... And thank you so much for coming.
Ethlyn: Sigurd...

%Sigurd,Arvis
Arvis: It has been too long, Master Sigurd.
Sigurd: Lord Arvis?! Why are you-
Arvis: His Majesty is concerned, and he bade me to come and observe. He also entrusted me with this - a gift for you.
Sigurd: This is... a silver sword! A gift from His Majesty? Oh, what an honor! Lord Arvis, be sure to pass my deepest gratitude for this onto the king!
Arvis: Very well. Incidentally, Sigurd, rumor has it that my brother, Azelle, is among your forces. I presume this is true?
^start
Sigurd: Mm, sorry about that. It sounded as if he came behind your back, but I couldn't turn him away. If at all possible, would you mind if he remained with me for a while longer?
Arvis: I see... So long as you keep him safe, then. He and I may have different mothers, but Azelle is still my only brother. I'd prefer if he remained by my side, but perhaps this is how it must be... I'll entrust Azelle to you, Sigurd. Be sure that he learns from this experience.
Sigurd: You can leave it to me, Lord Arvis. Once we're done here, I'll do what I can to convince him to go home.
Arvis: Good to hear it. Now, I must return to His Majesty's side in the capital. I'm entrusting this crisis to you, Sigurd.

Sigurd: Oh, gods... Azelle... He...
Arvis: He's dead isn't he?
Sigurd: I'm so sorry, Arvis... I couldn't do a thing to save him...
Arvis: Oh, Azelle... You careless fool...
^end

@Boss 
DiMaggio: C'mon, you Grannvale cowards! Come at me! I'll crush the lot of you!

DiMaggio: No... This ain't right...

Gerrard: Go to hell, you Grannvale dogs!

Gerrard: Oi, wait a sec! No bows, you coward! That ain't a fair fight!
Midir: Oh, shut up! Let Lady Aideen go! NOW!

Gerrard: Ahahaha... Too bad for you... Killing me ain't gonna free your dame... Prince Gandolf's already... Urgh...

/***EOF***/
@Opening 
The final battle for control of Grannvale sent its most powerful figures to the grave. Just as he had planned, this left Arvis as the sole ruling power of the kingdom. 

Opposition from Silesse and Leonster was swiftly crushed, and so Arvis unified all Jugdral under Grannvale's rule. With overwhelming support from his subjects, Arvis thus became the first Emperor of the Grannvale Empire. 

Seventeen years have passed since the Battle of Belhalla... The adoring public who once welcomed the rise of Emperor Arvis now struggle under his oppressive, dictatorial rule. And across Jugdral, in the other realms now dominated by Grannvale, their people have been reduced to living as little more than slaves to the Empire's whims. 

In the former Kingdom of Isaach, Grannvale's harsh rule tortures the Isaachian people. King Dannan, the appointed king of Isaach, is a brutal and unforgiving tyrant, just like his late father, Duke Langobalt. While Dannan himself lives an indulgent life at the Rivough palace, the people remain little more than slaves to the Empire. His second son, Johan, rules Isaach Castle, while his youngest, Johalvier, rules Sophara. And the remote Ganeishire region is governed by Dannan's trusted confidant, General Harold. Under their rule, Isaach knows no freedom... 

However, one last hope remains for Isaach. Tirnanog, an isolated village in Isaach's far north... There, Prince Shannan works to raise a liberation army, whose strength grows with each passing day. Among these proud, young warriors is a young man, dubbed the "Heir of Light" by the people of Isaach and revered as the rightful prince of the Grannvale Empire. He is the brave young leader of the liberation army. His name is Seliph.

@Intro 
Dannan: Harold! Have you ferreted out the rebels yet? Or are you content to leave them unchecked for the rest of their days?! Shannan and his rebel ilk are growing stronger by the day, now they hamper us at every turn! And as if that wasn't enough, they harbor the spawn of Sigurd the Traitor! The very existence of this scum utterly defiles the authority of the Isaachian throne! How do you expect me to explain this sorry state to His Imperial Majesty?
Harold: A thousand apologies, Your Highness, but everything is already under control. The rebel hideout has been found, and even as we speak an army is on its way to crush them. Those vile mice have nowhere else to run! By sundown, not a single rebel will still be breathing.
Dannan: Hm. Very well. But be warned, Harold. Don't even think of underestimating them. Most of the rebels are too young to pose a threat, but they still have Oifey and Shannan. Those two alone are extremely dangerous. Dismissing them would be a fatal mistake. 
Harold: Yes, sir. I'm aware. But I've already had Tirnanog, the rebel hideout, surveyed in secret, and it appears that neither are anywhere in sight. It's safe to assume them to be currently absent, sir.
Dannan: What?! Then why are we still talking about this? Send the order to move in on Tirnanog immediately! The people of Isaach are treating these rebels like some kind of heroes of freedom... But it's high time they learned the error of their ways! Kill them! All of them! I'll be waiting back at Rivough. I expect nothing but good news!

Scáthach: We have a problem, Lord Seliph! Looks like the Empire's finally caught onto our whereabouts... A brigade's set out from Ganeishire, and they seem to be headed our way!
Larcei: Ugh, Scáthach! Why so surprised? Did you really think our little hideout wouldn't be found out sooner or later? Let them come, I say! It only makes the battle easier for us! It's the easiest thing to just walk right over Ganeishire and pick them off as we go!
Scáthach: You've gotta be kidding! Prince Shannan's still off trying to find the Yied Shrine, and Oifey and the others aren't back yet. It's just us two against an entire army! Surely, even you can't think this'll end well!
Larcei: I don't care! You can sit here and be as scared witless as you want, but I'm not letting a chance like this pass! The prince still treats us like helpless children, but come on! We've had more than enough training! We're ready for real action!
Scáthach: But...
Larcei: I'm... I'm not gonna run away anymore! I'm sick to death of sitting here while those monsters butcher our friends! Or worse... The empire's thugs are still out there, snagging any girl they see... If Prince Shannan hadn't come for me that day, I'd be just another one of 'em: dead, or wishing I was... I won't forgive or forget their plan!
Scáthach: No, that's not it, Larcei... You're right, it's horrible and all, but...
Seliph: You're wary of engaging the enemy out of concern for my safety, aren't you Scáthach? Most likely, I presume Shannan would have given you strict orders to keep me safe. After all, if Shannan had not given such an order, you'd already be out there in the fray! To not be thirsting for a good battle just isn't the Scáthach I know.
Larcei: Oh... That's... That's right. Sorry, sir. I was hoping we didn't have to involve you...
Seliph: I'm no child anymore, either, Larcei! If you two plan to fight, then I plan to fight by your side. There's more at stake today than only the resistance. What of Tirnanog? We owe so much to its people. I refuse to abandon them at such a critical hour!
Scáthach: But-
Seliph: We've no time to waste debating this! Lana, stay behind and help the citizens. We'll engage the foe in the western gully.
Lana: Wait, milord! I'm coming, too!
Seliph: I cannot permit that, Lana! A cleric such as yourself is ill suited for such a battlefield.
Lana: This is my fight, too! You won't convince me any more than you could convince Larcei! Every day I think the Empire can't get any more cruel, and every day I'm proven wrong. They prey on the weak and vulnerable as if snuffing out their lives is a sport to them... I can't sit quietly and accept this! I may not be able to fight, but I've my own way of defending everyone!
Seliph: Hm... My apologies, Lana. You are absolutely right: the battle for Isaach's freedom rests upon all of us. Very well. We shall all go together! How this will turn out, I cannot say... But we owe it to all of Isaach to give this battle no less than our best.
Lana: Yes, milord! And er... Sorry. I shouldn't have spoken so brashly.
Seliph: Ha! You've nothing to apologize for. Now, Scáthach, Larcei, Lana... The time has come! Move out!

@Battle 
Oifey: We're too late! The battle has already begun...
Lester: I guess news of Tirnanog, Seliph and all that must've leaked while we were off scouting. I hope everyone's doing alright...
Dermott: Most of them'll be fine, Lester, but what about your sister? What if Lana's gone and gotten herself mixed up in the fighting? She can't defend herself at all if she's out in the open like this. Sir, we should hurry back. The sooner get back to Lord Seliph's side, the better.
Oifey: Indeed. Come, Dermott! Lester! The battlefield awaits us!

Seliph: By the gods! I've never seen such ruin. It's as if Ganeishire never even existed...
Lewyn: Been a while, hasn't it, Seliph?
Seliph: Hm? Oh, Lewyn! Er, pardon me... Your Majesty, King Lewyn of Silesse...
Lewyn: Just Lewyn, Seliph... like I've always been. Silesse is just another Imperial conquest now... That's all it's been since the mess in Belhalla. And meanwhile, here I am, still living a pathetic, shameful life for all to see. At least my mother faced Silesse's demise, and her own, with pride and dignity! But me? Nope! I'm still just an idiot bard... Don't listen to what Oifey says of me, Seliph. Just, please... don't call me a king ever again!
Seliph: I... My apologies, Lewyn...
Lewyn: Heh, it's fine. Don't worry about it. More importantly, looks like you've finally got this revolution thing started! There's no place more fitting than Isaach to start fighting back against the Empire.
Seliph: Indeed! The courage of Isaach's people is matched only by the pain and anger the Empire has inflicted upon them. All we're missing now is for Prince Shannan to return and join the fray himself.
Lewyn: He ran off to follow some rumor, didn't he?
Seliph: Mm. Rumor has it his birthright as heir to the Isaach throne, the holy sword Balmung, is being kept in a shrine in the Aed Desert. As I understand it, the entire desert region is ruled by an evil priest. I trust Shannan's might, but I cannot help but worry for his safety...
Lewyn: Eh, if anyone can do it, it'll be Shannan. Actually, Seliph, I've a favor to ask of you.
Seliph: Oh? If it is within my power, I'll gladly help. What is it?
Lewyn: Julia, could you come over here?
Lewyn: See, I found her years ago in Belhalla when she was just a little girl, hurt pretty badly. Since then I've been looking after her in a hidden little corner of Silesse, at least until we had to get out a while back as the Empire set about tightening its grip. The thing is, I've got things that need doing over in Leonster, and at this point, she's just slowing me down.
Lewyn: I hate to impose on you, Seliph, but I don't have much of a choice. Could I just leave her with your group for a while? I still don't know what happened to her, but it must've been pretty awful. Poor thing. Back when I first found her, she couldn't remember a thing about what happened. It looks like she still can't...
Seliph: I see... Very well. You can trust me with her, Lewyn. However, I must ask that you return for her as soon as possible. She likely won't feel too comfortable in an army of strangers.
Lewyn: Deal. Heh, I'll probably be back here by the time you've finished freeing Isaach. Good luck, Seliph.
Seliph: May the gods be with you as well, Lewyn!
Seliph: Listen, Julia... I know it'll be hard for you without Lewyn here, but I promise you'll be alright. Until Lewyn returns, I swear I'll let no harm come to you... I know I've still much to learn, and as yet I'm not all that strong... But one day... Someday, I know I'll be strong enough to protect us all! Someday, I'll have the strength to defend all the world's people from the Empire's wrath! Someday I'll be strong, as my father once was...
Julia: Seliph...

Dannan: The rebels have taken over Ganeishire? Gah! Harold, you moron! What in the blazes are my sons doing? Somebody tell them to take the rebels down! Now!
Johalvier: Dad's ordering us to attack, huh? Isn't Larcei in that army?! Damn... What do I do? How can I fight her...
Johan: We're to strike Ganeisire, are we? My, my... Father's got quite the temper. But I could never lay so much as a finger on Larcei, even if she is among my foes... Ahh... What a dilemma standing before me...

Fee: Phew! Sorry, Mahnya! I know a load like this isn't easy on you.
Arthur: Hah! Mahnya? Is that really what you call your pegasus?
Fee: Oh, pipe down, Arthur. I don't care if we're nearly there, 'cause I'll still just dump you if you don't shut it!
Arthur: Er, right. Sorry about that. Say, Fee, I don't have too far to go. If you want, I can just walk from here.
Fee: Where are you off to, anyway?
Arthur: Oh, just Alster.
Fee: A-Alster?! Geez, you're dumber than I thought! Alster's waaay south of here. There's an entire sea in the way, for crying out loud! I dunno what you're thinking, but you haven't got a hope in heck of walking the rest of the way there!
Arthur: Eh, it's fine. I'm hardly in a hurry.
Fee: So, er, why do you need to go to Alster?
Arthur: Oh, see, I've got a sister I haven't seen in years who might be there. She and my mom were taken away when I was just a kid. I was sort of left alone in some far corner of Silesse or another. I just heard a rumor, but at this point even a rumor's enough if it means I might find her.
Fee: Huh, really? Y'know just what that's like. My big brother's been missing for ages.
Arthur: Did you get separated from him as well?
Fee: Oh no, nothing that bad. We've always lived together in Silesse, but a while back he ran off to try and find our dad.
Arthur: Your father, huh?
Fee: Yeah, he's been missing for years. Mom spent the rest of her life waiting for him to come back, but he never did...
Arthur: What happened to her?
Fee: She... She's dead. Illness...
Arthur: Oh, er... Sorry about that. I shouldn't have brought it up...
Fee: It's okay! I mean, you've already brought up lots of things that you shouldn't have. Heh, kidding. You're actually not that bad.
Arthur: Heh heh, thanks. And thanks for giving me a chance and letting me come along.
Fee: No problem! So was the sister thing real? Is that actually why you're travelling?
Arthur: Yeah, it's real. But what about you? What's your deal?
Fee: Actually, I kinda want to join that Isaachian rebel army. When I was little, mom told me stories about the paladin Sigurd and his brave allies, and those have always meant a lot to me. Lately I've been hearing about how Sigurd's son's somewhere in Isaach, raising a revolution. And it all just sort of clicked, y'know? I knew that's where I need to be, so I just ran right out of home to try and find him.
Arthur: Wow... That's pretty great of you. Y'know, I think I'll help you out here for a while. It's the least I can do for you putting up with me.
Fee: Okay! Partners it is, then! Good luck out there... partner!
Arthur: Heh! Upbeat as ever, aren't you?

Dannan: What in the blazes was that?! Just when I thought my son can't get any more useless, he goes and forgets how to fight! Schmidt! Get out there! Take back my castles, now!
Schmidt: Yes, sir! You can depend on me.

Old man: Oh, gods bless you, Lord Seliph! Sophara is free once more, thanks to you!
Seliph: Is everyone unharmed, sir?
Old man: Indeed, and overjoyed to see you to boot!
Seliph: Thank you. I swear to you, before this day is done, King Dannan will be no more and Isaach shall belong to its rightful people!
Old man: Freedom... Oh, the word is tonic to my ears! Please, take care of yourself out there. Lord Seliph, you are the last and greatest hope for the future of this world and all its people. Only you, Lord Seliph, possess the power to free this world from the grip of darkness...

Old man: Ohh! Lord Seliph, sir! Glad to see you're okay!
Seliph: Is everyone unharmed, sir?
Old man: Indeed, and ecstatic to see you to boot! Thanks to you, Lord Seliph, we know that at long last, Isaach shall have its freedom!
Seliph: Thank you, sir, but the effort isn't mine alone. I could never have come so far without the support of the common man. You've all supported me from the beginning. I likely wouldn't be here if not for you!
Old man: Fate is a funny thing, isn't it, sir? Just twenty years ago, our late king had the utmost trust in your grandfather's wisdom. Then your father came to protect Prince Shannan, and now the prince has guided you to adulthood. Perhaps fate has bound Isaach and Chalphy as one...
Seliph: Mm. Isaach is the only home I've ever known, and Prince Shannan is like a brother to me. I pray our friendship lasts the rest of our lives.
Old man: Lord Seliph, you are the rightful heir to House Belhalla and the throne of Grannvale. Not a soul alive in Isaach, nor in the rest of the world, can doubt this. We beg of you! Raise the banner of justice high, march on Belhalla and reclaim your true throne!

Fighter: Lord Johalvier has some weird tastes. Lusting after such a fierce broad? Really? Heh... I prefer my women a little more... Wait, why am I telling you this?!

Axe Knight: Ugh... I don't get Lord Johan. He bends over backwards to please every last bit of skirt, yet here he's so bloody harsh on us!
Johan: Is that a morsel of gossip I hear, soldier?
Axe Knight: N-no, sir! Nothing to report here, sir!

@End 
Seliph: Julia?! You’re safe! Oh, thank heavens...
Julia: Mm... The enemy seized and imprisoned me here, but I knew... I knew you would rescue me, no matter what.

Lewyn: A job well done, Seliph! Thanks to you, Isaach is free from the Empire's grip.
Seliph: Lewyn? Are you already finished in Leonster?
Lewyn: Yeah... I only just got back now. Look, Seliph. Are you aware that right now, this world's at a critical turning point?
Seliph: Hm? No... I'm afraid not.
Lewyn: It's been fifteen years since Arvis conquered all of Jugdral and united it as the Grannvale Empire. Honestly, for a while at first it wasn't all that bad. In the empire's dawn, Emperor Arvis sought to bind his nation using only the strictures of law. Sure, it was strict and constraining, but we still got a good few years of peace out of it. But obviously he changed his mind. A few years back, as if by magic, the Empire turned into that oppressive force we all know and love today. Even worse... the ancient heretics of the Loptr Church have arisen from the shadows once more and raised influence across the land. Their murderous rituals have returned with them, and all across Jugdral they abduct children to sacrifice in droves to resurrect their fell god. All attempts to resist the Empire are crushed and met with brutal executions or enslavement. It couldn't be plainer that they seek to return Jugdral to the days of brutal control by that ancient abomination, the Loptyrian Empire.
Seliph: This cannot be happening! I've heard all the rumors saying the same, but... Never did I think they could be more than rumors...
Lewyn: By the look of it, Isaach hasn't had it quite as bad as most. Dannan's two sons, at least, refused to follow through on the child hunts.
Seliph: ...
Lewyn: Of course, there's always been people trying to rebel against the Empire left, right and center, but they were all scattered and disorganized. Before you, none have ever posed a proper threat to the Empire. They were all swiftly crushed before they could so much as blink. Jugdral desperately needs a savior. It needs a man to unite behind in the name of liberty. And I'm pretty sure that man is you, Seliph. You're the only one who stands a chance.
Seliph: Hold on a moment! Are you sure of this? A savior would require power I sorely lack...
Lewyn: Chalk it up to duty, Seliph. You're the eldest child of Empress Deirdre... That makes you the elder brother to the crown prince Julius. You're the one true heir to Saint Heim. Your destiny is to unite the power of the Crusaders of this era and free the world from this evil grip.
Seliph: But...
Lewyn: Trust me, you really do have what it takes. Your true power and potential sleeps within you: that is, the sacred blood of the Crusader Baldr. Once you get your holy blade, Tyrfing, not even the heavens will be able to stand in your way!
Seliph: But I-
Lewyn: Sorry, Seliph, but that's how the gods will it. You're Sigurd's son: The son of a man who fate led to a brutal end. The fulfillment of his dying wishes and his final quest falls to you. You can't afford to go doubting yourself now. You understand, Seliph?
Seliph: Y-yes... Yes, I do. If this is fate and the will of the gods, then so be it. I will do my duty.
Lewyn: There actually isn't a single absolute fate, nor is there just one person it all hinges upon. As obtuse as that sounds, trust me, one day it'll make sense. Sigurd left behind so much to help you on your quest. Most importantly, the many friendships he forged in his life... Me, for instance. Brave youths from all over are already lining up to join your cause, all guided by Sigurd's kindness.
Seliph: Mm. My father won the love and trust of so many people, from all walks of life. I can only pray that in time I'll prove my worthiness to his legacy.
Lewyn: You'll be fine. Anyway, to business. Our immediate goal now is to reach Leonster. The son of Quan, your father's closest friend, raised his own rebellion only to suffer severe losses. He's in pretty urgent need of backup. I know you've had no time to rest, but we need to get going as soon as possible. For now, at least, we can leave Isaach in the care of its citizens. Odds are we'll run into Prince Shannan on our way.
Seliph: Understood!

@Visit 
Old man: King Dannan's got three sons. The oldest, Brian, lives at the old family home in Grannvale. The younger two serve him here in Isaach. Johan controls Isaach Castle, while Johalvier controls Sophara Castle. They're both kind of an odd sort, and they've both got this obsession with someone in your army called Larcei. Always squabbling, they are... I dunno, though. Neither of them are all that bad, really. Heck, I bet they'd want to join forces with you!

Young man: Prince Shannan is our beacon of hope for Isaach's future. Once he returns with his divine blade, Balmung, in hand... Well, those imperial sods won't stand a chance at all! Every last one of them will be run right out of our great land!

Man: Every last citizen of Isaach believes in and trusts Lord Seliph! We owe his family dearly for how his father, long ago, rescued and helped raise our Prince Shannan!

Young woman: Y'know the liberation army's leader, Seliph? They say he's the rightful heir to Grannvale. I bet we'd all have a much better time with him on the throne if that were true, huh! Here, take this here skill ring. Go on, do your best! We're all behind you!

Young man: Ooh, aren't ya from that liberator's army? Glad ta’ see yer makin' a stand now! This is great news! With y'all around, we've finally got a shot at makin' them imperial cowards run outta here with their tails between their legs!

Old man: Ohhh! If it isn't Lord Seliph himself! We can't thank you enough for all your help! Here, allow me to give you my granddaughter's hand in marriage. We raised her as well as well can be, and she's the kindest, sweetest little thing! Oh, I remember that even as a kid she-
Young woman: Grandpa, knock it off! Ugh, this is so embarrassing! ...I'm sorry, Lord Seliph. I wouldn't wish seeing that sorry display upon anyone! But, er... if you do like me, milord...
Seliph: Er... Wait a moment... That isn't why I'm here...
Young woman: Ahahahaha! C'mon, Lord Seliph! It's just a joke! A j-o-k-e! Look, you've gone bright red! How adorable! 
Seliph: Er...
Old man: I'm completely serious, though.
Seliph: Oh. Oh, dear...

Young woman: I've been hearing a lot about how the Empire's been hunting kids in all those other countries... Thanks to you lot, Isaach's free from the Empire at last, but the rest of the world's still in a really dark place... All across Jugdral, they're all waiting for Lord Seliph to rise up and defeat the Empire! Please, I'm begging you... You've gotta make it to Grannvale soon!

@Battle-Talk
%Scáthach,Larcei
Scáthach: You holding up okay so far, Larcei?
Larcei: Yeah, I'm getting by fine...
Scáthach: Just be careful out here, okay? Your usual brazen antics'll only get you in trouble now.
Larcei: I know, I know, I know! What, do you think I'm still a child?
Scáthach: Heh... Man, that iron will of yours! Guess you're just like Mom was, if what Prince Shannan's told us is true.
Larcei: Yeah... Ayra... I can't remember a thing about her. You?
Scáthach: No, of course not. We're twins, remember? If you were too young to remember, then so was I! We weren't even two years old yet back then... It was Oifey who took us with him when he fled to Isaach with Seliph. We waited and waited, but Mom never followed... I guess she didn't make it out of the Battle of Belhalla alive...
Larcei: Scáthach! You swore you'd never say awful things like that! Mom is alive! ALIVE! I'm sure of it! Don't you dare say otherwise ever again!
Scáthach: ...Er, sorry, Larcei... You're right... I'm sorry.

%Rodolbahn,Radney
Rodolbahn: You holding up okay so far, Radney?
Radney: Yeah, I’m getting by fine...
Rodolbahn: Just be careful out here, okay? Your usual brazen antics’ll only get you in trouble now.
Radney: I know, I know, I know! What, do you think I’m still a child?
Rodolbahn: So, er... How about Johan and Johalvier, then? I just don’t get either of ‘em.
Radney: Ugh... Them! They’re driving me mad! Creeps like them are why men are the absolute worst! They make me feel sick!
Rodolbahn: Hey, easy there! Not all men are like that. You’ve let the imperial soldiers’ treatment of you make you hate all mean for no reason.
Radney: Wow, you don’t say! I know it’s irrational, but for crying out loud, just being near a man’s enough to turn my stomach now. 
Rodolbahn: Every man?
Radney: Er, I guess you and Lord Seliph are okay.
Rodolbahn: Heh heh... what about Shannan, then?
Radney: Ugh, Rodolbahn!

%Lester,Lana
Lester: Lana?! Don't tell me you're fighting, too!
Lana: I am, Lester. I simply couldn't bear to leave Lord Seliph to fight alone...
Lester: Why am I not surprised... Look, I know I can't get you to leave, but just be careful, okay? It'd break Mother's heart if something happened to you out here.
Lana: I know, but actually, there was something Mother told me... She told me that we owe the greatest of debts to the people of Isaach, and that if we can help them in any way, we owe it to them to do all we can.
Lester: Yeah, I guess she's right. I mean, we wouldn't even be here now if not for the help of the locals... ...So, er, where is Mother, anyway?
Lana: She's back in Tirnanog's abbey, working like always.
Lester: Right... Listen, Lana. We've got to give this battle our all, both in Mother's name and in the name of our lost father... Someday, I know, we'll finally be able to help Mother return to her home, Jungby... 
Lana: You're right, Lester.

%Dimna,Mana
Dimna: Mana?! Don't tell me you're fighting, too!
Mana: I am, Dimna. I simply couldn't bear to leave Lord Seliph to fight alone...
Dimna: Heh... Why am I not surprised...
Mana: W-what do you mean?
Dimna: Oh, nothing... Just, er, don’t get too invested in him. You know Lord Seliph’s a Grannvale prince, right? He’s as lofty a noble as they come. Let’s face it, peasants like us’d ordinarily have no business being anywhere near him. I just don’t want to see you get hurt... 
Mana: You... You’ve got the wrong idea, Dimna! All I want is to protect Lord Seliph and to make sure he survives this war, okay?
Dimna: Oh, er, that’s fine then. Sorry, Mana. I’m just really concerned for you...
Mana: Yes, I know... Thank you, Dimna.

%Oifey,Seliph
Oifey: Oh, thank the gods, sire! You're safe!
Seliph: Oifey! Glad to see you made it back. What news of the rest of the world?
Oifey: The Empire's grip is tightening still further, as if trying to choke life from the people. It's inciting doomed revolts all across Jugdral.
Seliph: So it's as I thought... It isn't as if the Empire's tyranny would ever be limited to only Isaach... Oifey, is it feasible to assist them?
Oifey: Not as we presently stand, sire. We still lack the strength to properly challenge the Empire.
Seliph: Then what of our present battle? The war for Isaach's freedom has already begun. Turning back now would be impossible...
Oifey: Mm. There's certainly no chance of returning you to hiding, sire, now that your whereabouts have been leaked. Starting the fight now was reckless, but we've no choice but to continue...
Seliph: Oifey, I'm sorry I let all of this happen behind your back, but we had no choice. Even so, I don't think I could have stood letting Isaach suffer under Dannan's thumb any longer. I trust you understand Oifey...
Oifey: I do, sire. Now, our priority is to lay siege to Dannan's capital, Rivough, with all due haste. Dannan must fall before the Empire can send him reinforcements. We cannot afford to wait!

%Lana,Julia
Lana: Julia, right? Hello there! Are you doing okay without Lewyn?
Julia: You're Lana... Yes, thank you. I'm fine...
Lana: You know, Lord Seliph's actually really been worrying about you. If there's anything I can do to help you, just let me know and I'll get right on it.
Julia: Mm. Thank you...
Lana: Oh, and I've got a little something for you.
Julia: This is... A Mend staff?
Lana: You can use these, right?
Julia: For me? Thank you, Lana. With this... I know I can help everyone.
Lana: You're welcome, Julia. Let's give this war our all, together!

@Recruit-Talk
%Larcei,Johalvier
Johalvier: Larcei! Heh... I guess you finally realized you want to see me, am I right?
Larcei: Look, Johalvier, I know you try to act like you're cool, tough and uncaring, but I know you're not all that bad. I mean, you've made a point of keeping your hands off the innocent all along. I guess I'd rather avoid fighting you, if I can...
Johalvier: Yeah, I guess... Pushing people around never really sat right with me, y'know? Not like my brothers. And I'm getting real sick of the Loptyrian Order running the show here. All round Isaach they've been stealing kids and, so I hear, killing 'em all as sacrifices! Dad doesn't even so much as ask 'em nicely to stop! I've had it with 'em! Larcei, my men and I want to join your army. Just say the word and we're yours, yeah?
Larcei: Wha- ...Are you serious? Johalvier, this is... Thanks so much! Er, I guess I was wrong to doubt you for all these years. Sorry.
Johalvier: Look, I'm no saint. Way I see it, at least now I can atone for everything I've done. Listen up, men! We're with the liberation army now! We're fightin' in the name of love and justice!
Johan: What manner of nonsense is this? ...Alas, for Johalvier has turned his cloak for the rebels! Oh, how his claim to Larcei pierces my heart! Men, turn your blades on love's foul traitor!

%Larcei,Johan
Johan: Oh, Larcei... How the twin hands of love and fate guide us! I've yearned for this day for many, many years, my beloved! 
Larcei: Johan?! Oh, for the love of... There's a stomach flu playing with your head, isn't there?
Johan: Larcei... Oh, Larcei! Your words are as the sweetest birdsong! Your eyes are as the most brilliant stars! Oh, without you at my side, what purpose is there in life? What joy could possibly be?
Larcei: Stop it! How revolting! This is a battlefield! Are you out of your right mind?!
Johan: I can deny my heart no longer, Larcei. Believe me when I say I've tried! Alas, love is a maddening beast at times... What else can I do but be at your side? Men, we are joining the liberation army! From this day on, we are men of honor! Fight on, in the name of justice, love, and Larcei!

Johalvier: You've gotta be kidding! Johan beat me to Larcei?! Bet he's gone and sided with her army, too, the weak-willed fool... Hmph... fine by me! Men, attack! Johan's unit is now the enemy!

@Battle-Talk
%Fee,Seliph
Fee: Hey there! You're Lord Seliph, right?
Seliph: Indeed I am. And you, miss?
Fee: Call me Fee! I'm from Silesse.
Seliph: Silesse, you say? Are you a pegasus knight, then?
Fee: Er, not just yet. I'm kinda still in training. My mom was one, though! Actually, in that big war years ago, she helped Lord Sigurd out in his army.
Seliph: Is that so? She has my utmost gratitude, on my father's behalf. Now, what brings you here, Fee?
Fee: See, what happened was I was looking for my brother, who ran away ages ago. But then I heard about you, sir, and how you're taking on the Empire yourself! And I just knew I had to be here too. Can I join your army, sir? Please?
Seliph: Certainly! Thank you. What of your brother, though?
Fee: It's silly, sir, but I have this feeling that we're gonna run into him somewhere down the line...

%Femina,Seliph
Femina: Hey there! You're Lord Seliph, right?
Seliph: Indeed I am. And you, miss?
Femina: Call me Femina! I'm from Silesse.
Seliph: Silesse, you say? Are you a pegasus knight, then?
Femina: Yeah! Er, actually, I’m just a rookie though.
Seliph: Is that so... So, what brings you to Isaach?
Femina: See, what happened was I was looking for my brother, who ran away ages ago. But then I heard about you, sir, and how you're taking on the Empire yourself! And I just knew I had to be here too. Can I join your army, sir? Please?
Seliph: Certainly! Thank you. What of your brother, though?
Femina: It's silly, sir, but I have this feeling that we're gonna run into him somewhere down the line...

%Arthur,Seliph
Arthur: Lord Seliph, right? Nice to meet you.
Seliph: Who are you?
Arthur: The name's Arthur. I came here from Silesse.
Seliph: Wait, so you are that Arthur fellow? I've heard of how you have been aiding us so far. Thank you so much!
Arthur: Eh, it was no big deal.
Seliph: You are capable of wielding magic, yes? That's truly impressive. I'm almost envious!
Arthur: My mother was a talented war-mage... But I've still got a lot to learn myself.
Seliph: We all do, do we not? So long as we all fight together, though, perhaps we still truly can change our world. After all, that's what brought us here today.
Arthur: Yeah, you're right... My power's at your disposal, sir. I'll give my all to aid the cause. I'm glad we could finally meet, Lord Seliph.

%Johalvier,Radney
Radney: Hey, knock it off! I don’t want you hovering around me like a lost pup! It’s irritating!
Johalvier: Oh, uh... I just thought I should protect you... 
Radney: Argh... 

%Johan,Radney
Radney: Hey, knock it off! I don’t want you hovering around me like a lost pup! It’s irritating!
Johan: Oh, what heartless barbs escape your lips! Must you truly so callously reject this, the purest form of my deepest love? I am yours, Radney, body and soul! Never shall my vigilant guard abandon your side!
Radney: Argh... 

%Seliph,Lana
Seliph: Lana, I still can't say I feel comfortable having you out here in the field. It's much too dangerous.
Lana: Y-yes, milord, but I'm sure I'll be fine.
Seliph: Please, take the utmost care! If you stray from behind the front lines, you'll be too vulnerable a target.
Lana: But-
Seliph: Lana, please... I'm worried for your sake.
Lana: ...Okay, milord.

%Julia,Seliph
Seliph: Are you faring alright so far, Julia?
Julia: Mm. Thank you, Lord Seliph...
^start
Seliph: Actually, I have something for you. I found this in Sophara Castle.
Julia: What is...?
Seliph: It's a light tome called Aura. You can wield these, yes?
Julia: Aura... This... Why does this sound familiar... Thank you, Lord Seliph. Thank you so much...

Seliph: Actually, I have something for you. I found this in Isaach Castle.
Julia: What is...?
Seliph: It's a light tome called Nosferatu. You can wield these, yes?
Julia: Yes, I believe so... 
Seliph: Excellent! Hopefully you'll now have an easier time protecting yourself in combat.
Julia: Thank you, Lord Seliph. Thank you so much...
^end

@Battle
Corinne: Hm? Aren’t you Dimna? ...You are! Dimna, it is you!
Dimna: What? Corinne! Been a while, hasn’t it?
Corinne: A really long while, huh! I’ve lost count on how many years it’s been since you and Mana said farewell to the city... It’s great to see you’re looking so good!
Dimna: Yeah. You’ve heard of Lord Seliph’s work to rebel against the empire’s tyranny, right? Well, I’ve actually been fighting in his army. Even if I’m hardly of much help to them...
Corinne: Heh... That’s amazing, though! Who knew that the little crybaby would someday become a revolutionary hero... 
Dimna: Heh heh. But would you mind keeping the crybaby part quiet? ...I’ve still a long way to go to become strong. Strong enough that you and the entire world can finally live in peace!
Corinne: Right... I hope you can... 
Dimna: Something wrong?
Corinne: Oh, er, it’s nothing... Here, I want you to have this. I’m sure it’ll help you. 
Dimna: Huh?
Corinne: This necklace is all I’ve got left of Mom. It makes you stronger when you wear it.
Dimna: I can’t take something like that from you!
Corinne: No, take it! I’m sure it’d make Mom happy for someone like you to finally put its power to good use. ...Please, Dimna. 
Dimna: ...Okay. Thanks, Corinne. Don’t worry. I’ll make sure you get it back as soon as this war ends. I promise.
Corinne: Heh, good ‘ol Dimna. That’s just like you... 
Dimna: Well, I guess I’ve gotta get back out there. Take care, Corinne!
Corinne: You too, Dimna!
Corinne: Dimna... 

@Boss 
Harold: Guh... No, calm down. They're nothing more than petty rebels!

Harold: Oof! How... How could I fall to... a few motley soldiers...?

@Recruit-Battle 
Johalvier: You'll never take my castle from me, rebels! I'll beat the daylight right outta you!

Johalvier: Urgh... I'm sorry, Larcei...

Johan: Ohoho... What courage, to dare to challenge Johan the Invincible! What honor, to be granted death on my blade!

Johan: Ahh... And so I fall, even to rebels such as these... Larcei... Oh, Larcei... Our love shall endure, even beyond the grave...

%Larcei,Johalvier
Johalvier: Larcei? Wh-what're you doing?! I can't fight you! I won't!

%Larcei,Johan
Johan: St-stay your hand, Larcei! Never could I turn my blade on you!

%Johan,Johalvier
Johan: Sigh... Ah, Johalvier... To think my very own flesh and blood could be so dense...
Johalvier: Dense? Hah! Look who's talking! ...Oh well. This was a long time coming, huh? Let's settle this once and for all!
Johan: As you will, my brother!

@Boss 
Dannan: Pitiful rebel fools... Don't you dare underestimate the glory of the Grannvale Empire!

Dannan: Urgh... Lord Arvis... my liege...

%Seliph,Dannan
Dannan: I-it's you! The spawn of Sigurd! Blast... My father will be avenged!
Seliph: King Dannan... You've tortured this land, and brought misery and death, for too long. Today, you shall face justice!

%Johalvier,Dannan
Dannan: Johalvier! What do you think you're doing? You would betray your very own flesh and blood?!
Johalvier: Yeah, sorry 'bout that, Dad. I just don't care about helping you do this land wrong anymore. Don't take it personally.
Dannan: Blast... Johalvier!!

%Johan,Dannan
Dannan: Johan... Curse you! You've let yourself be deceived by that she-witch!
Johan: Ah, if it were that simple... I live my life now in love's name! Forgive me, Father...
Dannan: Y-you useless little...

@Boss 
Schmidt: Hold, rebel scum! King Dannan has decreed that you shall go no further!

Schmidt: King Dannan... my lord... Forgive me!
/***EOF***/
@Opening 
Seliph's long journey is drawing to a close. His army's victories are a beacon of hope to the Empire's victims, and a wave of further rebellions sweeps across Jugdral. First, Silesse was wrestled back from imperial control by its citizens, and soon after Agustria's people flocked to arms, burning to fight for their country. 

But Grannvale itself yet stands. Duke Brian of Dozel and the axe knights of the Grau Ritter; Duke Scorpio of Jungby and his elite archers, the Beige Ritter; and Freege's Queen Hilda and the war-mages of the Gelb Ritter stand between Seliph and the capital. Belhalla itself lurks under an eerie silence, as Ishtar and the enigmatic twelve Deadlords lie in wait to defend Prince Julius himself. 

Over a year has passed since that fateful first battle in Isaach. The tragic struggle pitting kin versus kin wears on, splitting the Twelve Crusaders between the light and the dark... So begins the final holy war...

@Intro 
Julius: Father died, you say...
Manfroy: The Emperor had long served his purpose, Your Majesty. He was little more than an obstacle to your ambitions. He had to die.
Julius: Pfeh. I almost feel sorry for him. All his life he was your tool, Manfroy, only to be thrown away so casually...
Manfroy: All in your empire's name, Your Majesty. Arvis was a lost cause. To think he, a man of Loptous's blood, dared to challenge the revival of the empire! The righteous heart of the crusader Vala burned too fiercely within him. It was only a matter of time until he turned on you.
Julius: I know, I know... Now, then. I hear those rebels have stumbled as far as Chalphy. Are our defenses really that pathetic?
Manfroy: Rest assured. I've already tasked Edda's Bishop Rodan and Brian of Dozel with purging Chalphy of those vermin. You've no need to worry, Your Majesty.
Julius: Don't I, now... Where's Julia?
Manfroy: She awaits her end in the dungeon... You there! Bring us Princess Julia!
Julia: ...
Julius: Ah, Julia. It's been a while, hasn't it? Tell me, do you know who I am?
Julia: Julius... My brother, Julius...
Julius: Oho! So you do still remember! I can hardly believe seven long years have passed since you slipped away.
Julia: I... That night is seared into my memory, clear as if it were only yesterday...
Julius: Fehehe... Good. I trust you remember your mother's final kindness as well?
Julia: Who... No, what are you? That night... The night Manfroy came with that eerie black tome... Nothing was ever the same again. My real brother, the kind and caring boy I once knew and loved so, died that night. In his place stood a demon of terrifying power... My brother in name only. You... You monster... You've taken my mother and my brother from me! Who are you? WHAT are you? Why... Why must you torment us all so?!
Julius: I am the heir of Loptous's kin, and the inheritor of his limitless power. This world belongs rightfully to me. And you, Julia? You are the heiress to the power of Naga, my eternal foe. I cannot allow you to live any longer!
Manfroy: Hold a moment, Your Majesty. I believe I have a use for this girl's power. If I may, spare her and leave her to me.
Julius: Using Naga's power to serve me? Interesting... Very interesting. Very well! I must return to Belhalla. Julia is yours, Manfroy. But be warned. Be extremely careful! Even a single mistake with her could cost me dearly.

Rodan: His Majesty has issued his command. Priest and sellsword units! Defend Edda itself with your very lives! Cavalry unit, move in on Chalphy! Reclaim our land from the rebels!

Lewyn: This is it, Seliph. The final holy war begins now.
Seliph: A holy war?
Lewyn: Yeah, that's what this is. Julius is descended from Loptyrian royalty, and he's been working to revive the dark empire. No matter what it takes, we must stop him.
Seliph: It feels as if you know everything, Lewyn. I'm beginning to feel left out... Please, what in the world are you talking about?
Lewyn: Yeah, sorry about that, Seliph. I know there's a lot I've not been telling you. I've spent over a decade on a journey to figure out the truth behind all this, and I'm finally onto a hidden bigger picture here.
Seliph: ...The bigger picture?
Lewyn: It seems the old Loptyrian Empire's founder, the Bishop Galle, dedicated his youth to a world-exploring voyage across the seas. He desired nothing less than to drink the blood of a legendary beast. Even a single drop, he believed, would bestow upon any human limitless power.
Seliph: Do... do you mean the dragonkin of old? It couldn't be... Is that not a myth?
Lewyn: You'd think so, but... When Galle returned to Jugdral, he bore bizarre powers nobody else understood. With these powers, he set to work swaying youths across the land to aid his ambitions. Before anyone else realized, he'd raised a fell legion unflinchingly loyal to his cause.
Seliph: Where, then, does Loptous enter the tale?
Lewyn: Odds are Loptous was a dragon himself. Every last one of Galle's heirs has borne the blood of the dragonkin. The dark powers Loptous's kin command are nothing more than the dragonkin's powers.
Seliph: And what of the Crusaders?
Lewyn: I'm sure you know how the legend goes. The gods descended upon twelve warriors of the old liberators at the fortress of Darna. But...
Seliph: But?
Lewyn: Sorry, Seliph, but this'll have to wait. The enemy's just about on our doorstep.

@Battle
Lewyn: Edda, huh... Father Claude would be so happy to know his homeland is finally free...
Seliph: Mm... Father Claude gave his life for my father's cause. But his children...
Lewyn: Oh, of course. Claude's son and Claude’s daughter. They're going to be great rulers for Edda. And after all they've been through, I know that'll bring a smile to the people's faces.

Brian: It's time, Fisher. Your unit will move in on Edda at once! I'll lead the assault on Chalphy personally. Against the full force of Dozel's legendary axe knights, the Grau Ritter, the rebels stand no chance! They'll drop like leaves!
Fisher: At once, milord!

Lewyn: What a bloody disgrace... How could a pack of idiots like House Dozel be of Crusader heritage? If it weren't for Langbalt, the world wouldn't be in such a mess...
Seliph: Lewyn, I cannot wait much longer. Just where did the Crusaders' power come from? What in the world are these gods?
Lewyn: I can't say for sure... But whatever they were, they realized that our land's misery was caused by the power of the dragonkin. And so they came to Jugdral from some other world to save the human race. It was they who suddenly appeared at Darna, just as its doom seemed certain.
Seliph: That would be the legendary descent of Naga and the eleven gods found in scripture, yes?
Lewyn: Yeah. They say the gods took human shapes. Naga, the light god, appeared as a little girl, while the fire god Salamand was an old man. With twelve chosen warriors, the gods bound themselves in a blood covenant.
Seliph: A blood covenant?
Lewyn: Basically, the gods drew their own blood with a scratch to the fingertip and presented it to the warriors.
Seliph: ...I beg your pardon?!
Lewyn: Long story short, they were dragons. The gods we know only from scripture? They were all of the dragonkin, just like Loptous. With a single taste of the blood of dragons, these once humble warriors of the liberation army were reborn as the Twelve Crusaders. Each dragon presented to their crusader a weapon steeped in their own power. And then, with some final parting words of wisdom to the Crusaders, the dragonkin departed Jugdral.
Seliph: I see... So our power is, in truth, that of dragons...
Lewyn: Now, Loptous himself is actually from a dragon clan whose fell power is amongst the mightiest of all dragonkin. The great dragon Naga, strongest of them all, bestowed their own blood upon the leader of the liberation army, the priest Heim. Naga knew only their power could possibly hope to stand against that of Loptous.
Seliph: So nobody else among the dragonkin would be able to prevail against Loptous?
Lewyn: It certainly wouldn't be easy, I think. Even if you had every last dragon fighting together, they'd still need Naga's power. This, of course, means that if we're to win today, we'll need the surviving heir to Saint Heim. In other words, one of Deirdre's three children. Of those three, you didn't inherit the full breadth of Naga's blood, and it's pretty obvious that Julius didn't. Actually, I only recently learned who it is. The inheritor of Naga's power is Julius' twin sister... Princess Julia.
Seliph: E-excuse me?!
Lewyn: Yeah, that was more or less my reaction too at first. Julia is Julius' twin sister... which also makes her your sister, Seliph.
Seliph: So all this time... Julia was my sister...
Lewyn: I guess now we know why Manfroy took her to begin with. Needless to say, Seliph, we've got to rescue her, no matter what. We absolutely need Julia's powers if we want any hope of stopping Julius!

Hilda: Dozel's fallen to the rebels? What the hell were my men doing out there?! Feh, why'd I ever expect any better? Worthless cowards, the lot of them! It's time I took this into my own hands. All I need is to lure these flies into my web. Then I can crush them, once and for all! Send Scorpius of Jungby a messenger! Pass on to him this plan. The Gelb Ritter will coax the rebels our way, leaving them wide open to a deluge of the Beige Ritter's arrows from behind! They'll have nowhere to run or hide. Kill them all! No survivors this time!

Scopius: Heh, the rebels marched right into the trap. All too easy. Men, cut through the forest and swarm them from the rear! With Freege at their front, we'll choke them like a snake on a rat!

Seliph: Freege is ours, Lewyn. We've finally made it this far. But... I can't help but wonder... Are the children at Belhalla still unharmed? I pray they are...
Lewyn: Funny you should say that! We've got a visitor who's got a bit of news on that front, Seliph.
Seliph: And who are you?
Felipe: My name is Felipe, sire. I was once an aide to the late Emperor Arvis. On secret orders from His Majesty, the abducted children were moved here to Freege for safe-keeping.
Seliph: What? Is this true? You've saved all of the children?!
Felipe: Rest easy, sire. They're all hiding in the city's abbey, and they're all in good health.
Seliph: And all under Hilda's nose, at that! That you've kept every last child safe in Hilda's own city... Color me impressed.
Felipe: Actually, sire... Princess Ishtar deserves your thanks. Without her generous aid given in secret, we could never have done this. No Imperial soldiers dared come even close to the abbey, on pain of the princess' wrath.
Seliph: Princess Ishtar?! But why... Why would she-
Felipe: Few people in this land are as kind and caring as Princess Ishtar. All along, the princess has toiled behind the scenes to aid our cause. It was Princess Ishtar herself who ensured that every last child escaped from the bowels of Belhalla.
Seliph: I see... At any rate, thank the gods for their safety. I'm certain everyone will be glad to know the children are in good hands. You have my deepest thanks, Lord Felipe.
Lewyn: Well, Seliph, that's one job done. Good to see we're finally getting some results out of this mess.
Seliph: Mm. And yet, Julia still eludes us... Where could she possibly be?
Lewyn: The only options left now are Belhalla and Velthomer. It's got to be one of those two.
Seliph: And Belhalla is where Julius awaits...
Lewyn: Yeah, we'll have to find Julia first if we want to go anywhere near Belhalla. Without Julia's power on our side, we won't have a hope in hell against Julius.
Seliph: But no matter what's happened, Julius is still her brother. Will she even want to fight him...
Lewyn: ...You'll have to convince her.

Ishtar: If I may, Lord Julius, I'd like to lead the Weissritter to bolster the capital's defense. This will require that I leave your side, even for a while. I beg your forgiveness.
Julius: Feh. Why the rush to get out there so suddenly, Ishtar? All the soldiers they could ever throw at us could never so much as scratch me. Why even bother with those maggots?
Ishtar: Yes, I know... But for me, there is no greater pride than being one of Friege's great mages. My parents and brother lie dead, and I cannot stand to leave their murderers to run amok... Please... All I ask is a chance for vengeance.
Julius: It sounds as if what you really want is to join your family in death on a rebel's blade! Are you so desperate to escape me, Ishtar?
Ishtar: No... Nothing like that, Lord Julius. I love you. Nothing will ever change that.
Julius: Hmhmhmhmhm... I know. Very well! Fight if you must. I won't stop you.
Ishtar: Thank you... Now, I beg your pardon. Meng! Bleg! Mabel! We sortie at once!
Meng: Yes, milady.
Julius: Now, then. I think it's time we put an end to this sorry show. Deadlords, move out! And someone order Arion's unit to attack! The time for games is over. Every last rebel dies, here and now!
Manfroy: Heh heh... The rebels have come to play at last, I hear. Julia, why don't you join them? Purge all those who dare oppose the Empire!
Julia: YES... MY LORD... YOUR EXCELLENCY...

Arion: We have no home to return to, men... But we must keep going nonetheless. Chalphy's fall to our blades shall be the first step to winning back our fatherland. Now, move in! Show these liberators one final defiance from the wyvern knights of Thracia!

Seliph: Are we quite certain the Book of Naga is in fact hidden in Velthomer, Lewyn?
Lewyn: Yep. All the evidence we have points to Arvis taking it from Belhalla and keeping it hidden here. That's right, isn't it, Felipe?
Felipe: Indeed, sir. It should still lie in the treasury. That said, it is likely sealed in a locked case.
Lewyn: Huh. Any idea where its key is?
Felipe: My liege concealed the key within his most treasured memento... The circlet once worn by Empress Deirdre. If we can find that circlet, sir, then the Book of Naga is yours.
Lewyn: Deirdre's circlet, huh...

@Visit 
Old man: Oh, heirs to the courageous! Hear my ode to the crusaders of old.

Old man: Hear me, brave heirs to the crusaders! In your hands lies the task of proving this war to be a holy war of its own. If wisdom, courage and power be your allies, summon them now and give all you have, should you wish to prevail this day. Trust in yourselves to bring forth our destiny, one born where the two trails of light meet!

@Battle-Talk 
%Arthur,Tine
Arthur: This is it, Tine. We're getting awfully close to Freege... Mother's old home.
Tine: Mm, but... I have a bad feeling about this. How about you?
Arthur: Yes, I suppose... I've had nothing but hatred for Freege ever since they took you and Mother. All I've ever wanted is to crush them all for all they've done...
Tine: But... What about Uncle Blume, Ishtar and Ishtore? Haven't I told you about them before? They were all decent people. At the very least, they were always nice to Mother and I...
Arthur: Oh, right. It was Hilda who drove Mother to her death, wasn't it?
Tine: It was... Even after all this time, I still hate her so much. All I want is to be the one to put an end to her myself...
Arthur: Don't worry, Tine. As long as I live, you won't have to deal with anything like that ever again. I'll protect you, no matter what!

%Amid,Linda
Amid: This is it, Linda. We're getting awfully close to Freege... Mother's old home.
Linda: Mm, but... I have a bad feeling about this. How about you?
Amid: Yes, I suppose... I've had nothing but hatred for Freege ever since they took you and Mother. All I've ever wanted is to crush them all for all they've done...
Linda: Say, Amid... Mother betrayed her homeland to ally with Sigurd, right? You wouldn’t know why, would you?
Amid: Apparently she was really close to her sister, who died for Sigurd’s cause. That’s why she joined the army too.
Linda: That would be our aunt, right?
Amid: Yeah. That was Aunt Tailtiu.
Linda: Wow... She died fighting for her life... That’s... That’s so sad...

%Patty,Seliph
Patty: Here ya go, Seliph!
Seliph: Is this... lunch? You went and made lunch for me, Patty? Why, thank you!
Patty: Oh, and this too!
Seliph: Oh! You’ve prepared a drink as well? I swear you spoil me, Patty.
Patty: Aaaand one more thing... 
Seliph: Er... Is this supposed to be a drink? 
Patty: It’s Patty’s Super Special Home-Brewed Stamina Tonic! This’ll perk ya riiiiiight up! Don’t spill any, okay?
Seliph: O-of course... 

%Patty,Lester
Patty: Here ya go, Lester!
Lester: Oh, Patty! Am I glad to see you. I swear I was about to starve to death!
Patty: I thought you might be, so I packed you second and third helpings! Well? How is it?
Lester: Mmph... Oh, it’s fantastic! You’re the best cook I’ve ever met, Patty! 
Patty: Hee hee, I bet I am!

%Daisy,Dimna
Daisy: What’s going on, Dimna?
Dimna: Oh, Daisy... I dunno. I guess I’m feeling a bit, well, worthless... 
Daisy: Why?
Dimna: It’s not just me. It’s like we normal folk may as well not even be here... 
Daisy: Actually, yeah, now that you mention it... They don’t really seem to need us.
Dimna: Exactly... Y’know what? I oughta just go back home and find myself a real job.
Daisy: As soon as all this’s finally over, I’ll be right by your side on the way to Isaach. The war thing’s wearing me right out... 
Dimna: Gah... We’re hopeless, aren’t we... 

%Patty,Shannan
Patty: Shannaaaaaaaan!
Shannan: ...Er, yeah?
Patty: Er, yeah? Nice to see you too! Look, it’s lunchtime! Made it all myself!
Shannan: ...What are you doing? This is a battlefield, not a place for a picnic.
Patty: But I’ve got nothing else to do! It’s not like there’s anything around here that needs my, er, light touch!
Shannan: So you thought getting in everyone’s way in the middle of a war was a good idea?
Patty: Oh... Well that was uncalled for... You can’t just throw me aside like some old bag! And to think, I spent all day slaving away in a hot kitchen just to make you lunch... Well, I guess I won’t be doing that again!
Shannan: Oh, Patty... Look, I’m sorry. I went too far. Forgive me...
Patty: Then you’ll be eating my lunch? Really? Oh, that’s a huge relief... I love you sooooo much, Shannan! 

%Tine,Seliph
Tine: Lord Seliph...
Seliph: Tine?! Stay back, please! You are ill suited for the front lines!
Tine: All I want is to help you, Lord Seliph. Please... My power is yours!
Seliph: But I... I couldn’t bear to lose you...
Tine: I won’t leave your side, Lord Seliph... The thought of meeting the same fate as Lady Deirdre... It’s too painful... Please, Lord Seliph. I’ll fight at your side till the very end!
Seliph: You’re right... My apologies. How could we not be better off fighting as one? Come, Tine. We ride together. Your power will bring us victory. I know it!
Tine: Lord Seliph... Thank you!

%Tine,Leif
Tine: Are you alright, milord?
Leif: I am. You’ve no need to worry about me, Tine, but you ought to take care yourself. Our foes are as fierce as we’ve ever seen!
Tine: They are... But so long as we’re together, we’ll both be fine. I know it.
Leif: Neither of us can afford to die now. After all, the task of uniting Thracia still awaits us once we’re done here. 
Tine: Mm. I’m so glad I’ll finally have the chance to help the people of Alster.
Leif: Not only Alster, Tine... The entire kingdom. After all, you’ll be by my side as the Queen of New Thracia! 
Tine: That I will be, milord! 

%Tine,Ced
Tine: Are you alright, Ced?
Ced: Yeah, I’m fine. Don’t worry. But you ought to be careful yourself! These foes are as tough as they come. 
Tine: They are... But so long as we’re together, we’ll both be fine. I know it.
Ced: Tine. I love you so much. You’re the most important part of my life... 
Tine: Ced! We’re in the middle of the battle. This is hardly the time for things like that... 
Ced: Heh, sorry about that. I just wanted to say it while I still can. I’d hate to leave it unsaid should something happen... 
Tine: Ced... Please, be careful... 

%Mana,Asaello
Mana: Are you alright, Asaello? Listen, I know how frustrated you are right now, but please, you mustn’t do anything too rash. 
Asaello: Gah... If only I had a bit of crusader power, too, I wouldn’t be so bloody useless. I can’t take this!
Mana: I know... I’ve often thought the same. But crusader blood wouldn’t be the answer to everything. Think of it this way. We’ve made it so far with them with nothing but our best work. We might be common folk, but we’re bold and determined, and that’s what matters. 
Asaello: Commoners... And to think, everyone around us is Lord This or Lady That or King The Other! Life’s so unfair. 
Mana: I suppose... but come on, cheer up! Lord or not, there’s a whole orphanage eagerly awaiting your triumphant return!
Asaello: Yeah, you’re right. Things really aren’t all that bad. How could they be with you around?
Mana: Heh... Oh, Asaello... 

%Nanna,Seliph
Nanna: Lord Seliph...
Seliph: Nanna, the battle before us is as brutal as they come. Please, do take extra care.
Nanna: I know, but I’m actually a bit worried for you, Lord Seliph. Don’t forget that you’ve got to take extra care as well.
Seliph: You are right, of course, but after all this time we’re finally nearing the end. I mustn’t give this any less than I have.
Nanna: Then I’ll do everything I can to protect you, Lord Seliph. I’ll pray for you, just as I always have...
Seliph: Thank you, Nanna... I’m so grateful to have you always watching over me... I admit I can even feel your power!
Nanna: You’re welcome, Lord Seliph...

%Nanna,Leif
Nanna: Say, Lord Leif... How soon do you think this fight will be over?
Leif: I cannot say for sure... And yet I cannot help but feel our triumph is drawing ever closer.
Nanna: And once this is over, I take it we’ll be headed for Leonster?
Leif: Indeed we are. The Thracian peninsula has known naught but strife for decades, and to unify it was my father’s dream. I’ll pledge my life to fulfill his grand vision, and I’d have nothing more than to have you by my side every step of the way, Nanna.
Nanna: Of course Lord Leif! I’ll be by your side forevermore, wherever your path leads. Even to the very ends of the earth...

%Jeanne,Leif
Jeanne: Lord Leif!
Leif: Jeanne? Didn't I ask you to remain in the castle?
Jeanne: But-
Leif: I'm sorry, but this battle is far too dangerous for anybody who's not of crusader descent. I don't want you fighting today!
Jeanne: I know I'd be a burden if I fought, but I've still got my staves, remember? Surely having a cleric would be a good idea?
Leif: I suppose... But stay clear of any danger. Do I make myself clear? New Thracia still needs you... I still need you. I couldn't live with myself if I let you die...
Jeanne: Yes, Lord Leif...

%Nanna,Ares
Nanna: You need to be careful, Ares! With a task as great as Agustria’s restoration awaiting you, you can’t afford to die now.
Ares: Trust me, I know. I’ll never let this battle claim my life. So long as I still draw breath, I’ll toil till Father’s dying dream of a glorious Agustria is at last realized.
Nanna: That’s the Ares I know and love! Both Lord Eldigan and my mother would be so very of you. I’m sure of it.
Ares: But even one such as I could never do it alone. I’ll always need you, Nanna.
Nanna: And I’ll always be with you, Ares. I refuse to make the same mistake Mother made all those years ago...
Ares: Mistake? Was... Was Aunt Lachesis in love with my father?
Nanna: She was. Then again, I suppose he was only her half-brother.
Ares: And come to think of it, we are only cousins, are we not?
Nanna: Heh... It’s no wonder we’re together.

%Larcei,Seliph
Larcei: Hey, Seliph! Wait up!
Seliph: ...Hm? Larcei? 
Larcei: I’m coming with you on this one!
Seliph: You’re certainly welcome to...But why?
Larcei: It’s odd... I’m actually a little scared... 
Seliph: Odd, indeed! If there’s one thing you’ve never been known for, Larcei, it’s fear. 
Larcei: It’s... I just... 
Seliph: I understand completely. Now, come! After all, what could ever inspire courage quite like having your blade at my side? 
Larcei: Seliph... 

%Larcei,Johalvier
Larcei: Everything alright, Johalvier?
Johalvier: Nngh... I gotta admit even I’m havin’ a hard time keepin’ up... But hey, Dozel’s in our hands, right? Gotta keep going! Just a little longer... 
Larcei: Don’t do anything too dumb, okay? Dozel’ll still need you around to rebuild.
Johalvier: Yeah, you got it. I can’t just die now and leave behind my father and brothers’ now, can I? I’ll be needin’ your help too, Larcei. 
Larcei: Sure. You’ve helped me an awful lot, you know. I ought to return the favor. 
Johalvier: Whoa, thanks! I love ya so much, Larcei. 
Larcei: Wh- Johalvier! What’d I say about doing dumb things! 

%Larcei,Johan
Larcei: Everything alright, Johan?
Johan: At long last, the day is upon us: a battle so fierce to test even the mettle of Johan! I know at last the stinging kiss of fatigue... But all hope is not lost! Your love is as the mightiest shield, and with it I shall endure!
Larcei: Oh, geez... I guess I deserve every stupid word of that for letting myself fall for you, huh...
Johan: Love's hand is beyond reproach, my dear. Come, Larcei! Bless us all with a laugh!
Larcei: Heh... Don't slack off now, Johan.
Johan: Ah! Oh, Larcei, my dear...

%Larcei,Shannan
Larcei: We’ve come quite a long way, haven’t we, Shannan?
Shannan: Yeah, I guess we have.
Larcei: I can’t stop thinking about everyone back in Isaach... I hope they’re all alright.
Shannan: Getting a bit homesick, are we, Larcei? 
Larcei: Wh... No, not even close! What, do you think I’m still some kind of child?! 
Shannan: Maybe. You’ve got quite a convincing child act going on there! 
Larcei: Shannan!!
Shannan: Heh, I’m kidding! Come on. That terrifying glare you’ve got on there hardly befits a face as beautiful as yours. 
Larcei: S-Shannan... 

%Lana,Seliph
Lana: We're finally nearing the end, aren't we, Lord Seliph?
Seliph: Mm. You know, Lana, you've done so much to help our cause from the very beginning. I couldn't possibly thank you enough.
Lana: Thank you, but I'm not so sure. I've hardly done anything special, have I? But I don't mind. All I really need to be happy is to be by your side, Lord Seliph.
Seliph: Come to think of it, Lana, we've been together our entire lives, haven't we?
Lana: We have! I have so many great memories of afternoons we spent playing together. But not once did I suspect we'd end up, er...
Seliph: But I've always loved you, Lana. Even when we were children.
Lana: I'm sorry, Lord Seliph... But I can't stop thinking about this... Something feels amiss. It's as if being with you will hurt Miss Julia...
Seliph: Lana...

%Lana,Scáthach
Lana: Scáthach...
Scáthach: Yeah? 
Lana: I’m so proud of you.
Scáthach: Whoa, back up. Where’d THAT come from? 
Lana: Please... Please don’t die in this battle.
Scáthach: Oh. Listen, you’ve got nothing to worry about. I’m not about to let myself die just yet. 
Lana: Scáthach, I... 
Scáthach: Yeah? 
Lana: ...I love you, Scáthach. 

%Lana,Faval
Lana: Faval... 
Faval: Yeah? 
Lana: I’m so very proud of you.
Faval: Hey, hey, hey! What brought on the mushy stuff here? 
Lana: Please... Please don’t die in this battle.
Faval: Ah, right. Don’t worry. I’m not gonna let death do us part just yet. 
Lana: Faval, I... 
Faval: Yeah?
Lana: ...I love you, Faval.

%Altena,Arion
Altena: That's enough Arion! Why? Why in the world do you still refuse to see reason?!
Arion: Altena?!
Altena: How could you be so craven?! How dare you place your own vanity and pride over what truly matters!
Arion: What do you want from me, then?
Altena: Take a good, hard look at Prince Seliph! Ask yourself this: why is he still fighting? For whom is he out here day after day, setting his own suffering to the side?
Arion: So Seliph fights for justice, and I somehow do not? Is that what you're trying to say...
Altena: Very well, Arion... If you won't see reason, so be it. Come on. Kill me. End this. My... My life is in your hands, Arion. ...I die with no regrets.
Arion: A-Altena... Very well. You can rest easy now. I get it. I was wrong... My mercenary days are at an end, and my final task is with Seliph... Wait, no... With you. I now fight for you, Altena.

%Fee,Seliph
Fee: Say, Lord Seliph, I’ve got an idea. How about I go scout out the enemy?
Seliph: No, that would be too great a risk. This battle is nothing like anything we’ve yet seen. I don’t want you leaving my side. 
Fee: Fine...
Seliph: Er... Are you worried about Silesse, Fee? 
Fee: Just a little, I guess. I’ve heard rumors about how there’s some fighting there. 
Seliph: Indeed! Its citizens have staged their own revolt against the Empire. From what I hear, they’ve already made impressive progress. 
Fee: Really? Oh, that’s such a relief... 
Seliph: Would you like to return to Silesse, Fee? 
Fee: Thanks, but no thanks! The best place for me is to be by your side, Lord Seliph! 
Seliph: Really? Well, thank you, Fee. It’s an honor and a pleasure to hear it. 
Fee: I don’t ever want to leave you, Lord Seliph... This is like a dream come true... 

%Fee,Oifey
Fee: Say, Oifey, I’ve got an idea. How about I go scout out the enemy?
Oifey: Sorry, Fee, but I must object. Their lines are crawling with archers willing to shoot down any pegasi. 
Fee: So, er, Oifey... 
Oifey: ...Yes? 
Fee: Y’know, I actually think it’s really great. I mean, how all your life you’ve lived just for Lord Seliph, always putting yourself second. 
Oifey: Mm... I confess that, in a way, those of us who survived the old war never truly wished to survive... But we had our own mission, painful as it was to leave our friends to their doom... Your parents among them. 
Fee: Y’know, thanks to this war I’m starting to get my mom and dad a bit, and what they had to deal with... I never really knew them much... And I’m really glad I had you to tell me more about them, Oifey. 
Oifey: Thank you... I feel I’ve always been indebted to Lady Erin for all the help she gave me back then. It is a privilege to help her daughter. 
Fee: Um... Y’know, Oifey, I kinda wish I knew how to act a bit more, er, adulty. I think there’s a lot I could learn from you.
Oifey: All in good time, Fee. Little by little, life itself will teach you what adulthood is. 
Fee: Oh, come on! I can’t just let you get all old on me before I can catch up! 
Oifey: Whoa, whoa! Settle down, Fee... 

%Fee,Arthur
Fee: Whatcha doing, Arthur? 
Arthur: Well, for one, I’m fighting! The big hint here is the tome I’m holding... And you’re still as flighty as ever, I see. 
Fee: Well, hello to you too!
Arthur: And there you go! People are busy, and you just sulk! This sort of thing’s why nobody-
Fee: -will ever like me at all? That’s what you’re saying, right? Well, I don’t have to stand here and listen to this garbage! 
Arthur: No, wait! What I’m trying to say is, you sort of give people the wrong impression! But I like you... You’re really important to me.. 
Fee: A-Arthur... Stop kidding around... 
Arthur: Fee, I always want to be with you. You know that. As soon as this war’s over, we’ll go back to Silesse... Together. 
Fee: Oh, Arthur... Really? Yes! Thank you... Sniff... I’m... I’m so happy! 

%Seliph,Julia
Seliph: Julia! What in blazes has happened to you? Come on, wake up!
Julia: HA HA HA... DEATH TO ALL... WHO DARE TO CHALLENGE LORD MANFROY...
Lewyn: This isn't going to work, Seliph. An evil spell's got Julia strung up like a puppet. I think we should deal with Manfroy first. We can come back for Julia once he's gone.

@Recruit-Talk
%Seliph,Julia
Seliph: Julia! Wake up... Please!
Julia: ...
Julia: ......Nnh... Lord Seliph?! I... why am I here?
Seliph: You can thank Manfroy's dark arts. He brainwashed you into his service.
Julia: Manfroy... Oh, that's right... That man who caught me...
Seliph: Thank goodness you're safe...
Julia: Lord Seliph, I-
Seliph: It's fine, Julia. I know. Lewyn already told me everything. I'm sorry... I am so sorry. I failed to protect you...
Julia: No... It's fine. Don't worry, Seliph. I finally know why I've survived for all these years. I know my fate... I'm fated to fight. I'll never run away again!
Seliph: Your strength and courage is such an inspiration, Julia... But you're right. This is the will of fate, tragic as it is. None can afford to cower or flee now. Until the bitter end, we must march on...

@Battle
Lewyn: Okay, Julia. This is the treasury. Try fitting the gemstone on your circlet into that niche there.
Julia: Here we go...
Lewyn: It worked... It really worked! There it is! The Book of Naga! And it's yours for the taking, Julia!
Julia: Wow, I... Oh! How strange... It feels so warm... It's almost as if I've known this book all my life...

@Boss 
Roberto: Yer head's goin' fer a huge bounty, y'know? No hard feelings, but die!

Roberto: Nngh... This... This can't be...

Boyce: Must I waste my skills on such feeble foes...?

Boyce: W... What fearsome foes...

Rodan: What the devil is happening... You! What have you done?!

Rodan: Is this... my damnation...

Fisher: Damn you all! Your heads are mine to cleave right off!

Fisher: H-how could this be...

Brian: How dare you murder my father... Learn the pain and wrath of three generations of House Dozel!

%Johalview,Brian
Brian: Johalvier, you moron! How dare you seek to destroy House Dozel!
Johalvier: Well, hi to you too, Brian. Heh... You’re worrying over nothing. Dozel’s not about to be destroyed on my watch. After all, the people are behind me!
Brian: H-how dare you, you dastard... You won’t get away with this! 

%Johan,Brian
Brian: Keh. Johan, you traitorous scum! How dare you bring such ruin to House Dozel!
Johan: Now, now, dearest brother! Why so glum? The task of restoring Dozel's honor falls to me. Now, do step aside while you still can!
Brian: Y-you dastard...

@Boss
Brian: Even with Helswath, I... I fell so easily? Could it be... Could I have been wrong... all along...?

Dark Bishop: Kehehehe... Foolish mortals... Naught but prey to the darkness!

Dark Bishop: Gah! Lord Julius... I crave your pardon...

Hilda: Hmph... I won't fall anywhere near as easily as those other worms!

%Arthur,Hilda
Hilda: Ohohohoho! You're Tailtiu's other brat, aren't you? Am I to presume you've come to seek my head for your mommy's pathetic demise?
Arthur: Oh, yeah. I figured that Tine shouldn't dirty her hands this time around...
Hilda: Oh, did you now? In that case, I'll drag you straight to hell with me!

%Tine,Hilda
Hilda: Ohoho! So you toddled all the way here, Tine. I've been waiting for you. I want nothing more than to choke the life from you with my bare hands!
Tine: You won't get that chance! I pray you're watching, Mother... I'm finally going to kill Hilda!

@Boss
Hilda: Gaah! This is a travesty... Ishtar... Avenge me... You must avenge me...

Scorpius: You murdered my father, André... And at last, I will have my vengeance!

%Lester,Scorpius
Scorpius: And what are you supposed to be?
Lester: I'm Lester... The son of Aideen.
Scorpius: What? As in my dear aunt Aideen?! Well, then... The traitor's spawn shows his disgusting face at last! I certainly won't object. After all, I get to kill you, here and now!
Lester: Heh... My thoughts exactly.

%Faval,Scorpius
Scorpius: And what are you supposed to be? 
Faval: The name’s Faval, son of Bridget. 
Scorpius: What? As in my dear aunt Aideen?! Well, then... The traitor's spawn shows his disgusting face at last! I certainly won't object. After all, I get to kill you, here and now!
Faval: Heh, took the words right out of my mouth!

@Boss
Scopio: Gah... Why...

Arion: Forgive me...

%Altena,Arion
Arion: Altena... I wish we hadn't met here, that you may be spared from knowing my shame...
Altena: Arion...

@Boss
Arion: Nngh... Altena...

Manfroy: You fools! How dare you... All my life I've toiled for this moment... I'll show you no mercy!

%Seliph,Manfroy
Manfroy: Kehehe... You've come at last! I've been awaiting you for a long time.
Seliph: Manfroy! It was you who cursed Julia, was it no?
Manfroy: So I did. And so long as I live, my puppet she shall remain! Hee hee hee! She's every bit as helpless before my magic as her mother was...
Seliph: I should have known. If not for you, Mother... Gah! All of this misery... All these agonizing years... It was all your doing from the outset!
Manfroy: Heh... You've realized at long last. Everything I've done has led to this moment: the revival of my lord Loptous. And at long last, it is so! Loptous's advent in the form of Prince Julius is complete, and darkness shall soon engulf the world. You cannot prevent it. Nobody can...
Seliph: Manfroy, you... Father's grief... Mother's despair... If not for you and your foul ambitions, none of this would have ever happened... Damn you, Manfroy! I cannot allow you to win... I will not... You'll NEVER know mercy for your crimes!

@Boss
Manfroy: Lord Julius... The Loptyrian Empire... is yours...

Julia: HA... HA... HA...

Julia: NNNGHhhhh... Ahh... Lord... Seliph...

Ishtar: Still your tongue... And feel the wrath of the goddess of lightning!

%Tine,Ishtar
Ishtar: Tine...
Tine: Ishtar, please! Stop this! You've been nothing but kind to me all my life... I know you want no part of this battle!
Ishtar: ...I may be in the wrong, but I could never turn back now. Forgive me, Tine... Please...

@Boss
Ishtar: Lord Julius... Are you pleased?

Mabel: Taste my blade!

Mabel: Lady Ishtar... Please... Forgive me...

Bleg: ...Die!

Bleg: Lady Ishtar... My sisters...

Meng: This place will be your grave!

Meng: Luck be with you, Lady Ishtar...

Julius: Hmhmhm... Have you gone mad? You cannot even touch me.

%Seliph,Julius
Julius: Feh... We meet at last, Seliph. The so-called scion of light... Don't make me laugh! What challenge could an heir of Baldr possibly provide? This is where your story ends!

%Julia,Julius
Julius: J-Julia?! Why... What are you... Argh! Manfroy, you've made a grave mistake!

@Boss
Julius: GWAAAAAAAAAAaaaaaaaa....

Julius: GHARRGH... SELIPH... HEAR ME WELL... SO LONG AS AVARICE LURKS STILL IN THE HEARTS OF MEN... I WILL RETURN... COUNT ON IT... THE HEARTS OF... GAAAAHHhhh...

Julius: GHARRGH... NAGA! YET AGAIN... YOU HAVE BROUGHT RUIN... TO ME...

/***EOF***/
@Opening 
With the liberation of the peninsula's north, Seliph's liberation army aoccupies Meath Castle as their headquarters, uncertain of how to next act. Beyond Meath and the engulfing maw of its peaks lies the wyvern knights' kingdom, Thracia. This rural nation is ruled by King Travant, who remains bound in coalition to Emperor Arvis. Thracia is the only state anywhere in Jugdral regarded as an ally by the Grannvale Empire. 

Within Thracia, Travant's minions await Seliph: his children, Altena and Arion, at the capital; the legendary General Hannibal, dubbed "Thracia's Shield", at Kapathogia Castle; the king's trusted advisor, General Distler, at Luthecia Castle; and a Loptyrian agent from the Empire, Bishop Judah, at Grutia Castle. Travant has fortified his kingdom for one final, full-scale showdown with the liberators. 

Thracia's people hardly offer Seliph an eager welcome. Fearing Seliph as a conqueror, they flock in droves to take up arms themselves. How could any justice lie in this conflict? For whose sake is this war being fought? For the first time, these questions now shake both Seliph and his army's resolve to the core...

@Intro 
Travant: ALTENA!! What was that sorry display? Why, pray tell, is Munster still standing?!
Altena: Father... I...
Travant: I've no interest in any more excuses! Don't you dare belittle me, Altena. You are a warrior beyond compare, and you and Arion embody my will beyond these walls. I expect no less than for you to do your duty! And what do I find instead? You've ignored my orders, left an entire platoon to the slaughter, and strolled home as if nothing ever happened! I've never been more disappointed...
Altena: I'm sorry, Father, but at least let me explain! I could never agree with such tactics, which enrich us at the expense of everybody else! How could you ever expect the proud Thracian people to accept prosperity built on the bones of others? Please, Father, rethink your ways!
Arion: Enough, Altena. There's no place here for such meddling. Still your tongue and obey Father! Father, bear in mind Altena is still young and unseasoned. I suspect she merely found the last battle too overwhelming a prospect. Please do forgive her, even just this once.
Travant: You know, Arion? If you'd just hold back on the coddling, perhaps Altena wouldn't be so stubborn! Look, Altena. I'll give you one last chance. Take a dracoknight platoon and retake Meath! If you so much as slip again, then daughter be damned, I will accept no excuses! Understood?
Altena: Yes, Father...
Travant: Whew... Family resemblance, indeed! It's plainly obvious that she loathes me...
Arion: Father, you have to remember that she's still a child. Like all children, she has yet to realize her thoughtless words have real effects.
Travant: Hmph, I suppose... I'm off to Kapathogia. I hear Hannibal's found himself some funny ideas about my plans. And so it falls to me to ensure he loses those ideas before somebody gets hurt...
Arion: I've never seen father so fearful... What could possibly have happened...

Travant: General Hannibal! The rebels have seized control of Meath. Altena is en route to counter-attack. Your armored knights will join her at once!
Hannibal: Your Majesty, I've said it a thousand times and I'll say it again. There is no use fighting this war! We must arrange a truce with the liberators if we wish to recover the strength to endure! Bowing to the Empire was a despicable choice to start, one which now leaves us serving our citizens to the true enemy on a gilded platter!
Travant: I did not ask for such dopey nonsense! The rebels have slaughtered my soldiers, and now they've stolen our territory! The hour is far too late for a truce!
Hannibal: I thought as much... Very well. I suppose I have no choice.
Travant: What's this, Hannibal? Do I hear traitorous rumblings coming from that mouth of yours?
Hannibal: Come now, Your Majesty! Never would a warrior such as I consider turning my cloak. Traitor, indeed!
Travant: Really, now? Then I trust you wouldn't object to a test of your warrior's loyalty. Until the war reaches its victorious end, Hannibal, I'll be taking care of your son.
Hannibal: I beg your pardon, Your Majesty? Do you have such little faith in me?!
Travant: You have nothing to worry about, Hannibal. If you don't intend to betray me, then I don't intend to so much as scratch the boy.
Hannibal: Why...
Travant: Men! Bring me Hannibal's son!
Cairpre: P-Papa...
Hannibal: Oh, Cairpre... I am so sorry...
Travant: Remember, Hannibal. You have nothing to worry about, so long as you behave yourself. As soon as this war is won, you'll get him back. I don't get it, though. The boy isn't even your real son. How could he have such sway over you?
Hannibal: Cairpre has brought so much joy into my life. A true family transcends simple blood...
Travant: Ohoho! Could it be? Does Thracia's great statesman have a soft spot for children? Now, then. Thracia depends on you, Hannibal!

Travant: Distler! War is on our horizon. Defense of this castle is in your hands.
Distler: Oh, Your Majesty! To have your presence is a true honor and pleasure! Rest assured, milord. Luthecia is as an impregnable wall! I've seen to it myself.
Travant: I'll hold you to your word. Now, I've reason to doubt the loyalty of Hannibal at Kapathogia. I've taken his son hostage, just in case, and I'm leaving him to your custody.
Distler: Yes, sir! I'll not let him out of my sight. But should Hannibal turn his cloak-
Travant: Then you'll kill the son. Don't be lulled into offering even a child such as he any mercy.
Distler: Understood, milord.

Travant: Bishop Judah, we may be in need of reinforcements. How soon can I expect the Emperor to honor his end of the treaty?
Judah: Heh... Even the great King Travant is wary of betrayal, is he? Be at peace. An Imperial unit is on the march to Thracia even as we speak.
Travant: Good. In that case, I think I'll leave the defense of Grutia to your hands. Try not to get too cocky with the rebels, Bishop. They're of a treacherous sort.

Lewyn: Looks like they're finally sending more wyvern knights our way, Seliph. This must be it. It's time we readied everybody for battle.
Seliph: I don't know, Lewyn. Our foremost enemy is the Empire, is it not? Waging a war here feels... meaningless.
Lewyn: The point of a battle comes from how you conduct yourself in it, Seliph. And we hardly have much choice at this point! We're already this far into the fight...
Seliph: But what of that dracoknight who was watching us from the Munster peaks? I've seldom seen such a sad look in anybody's eyes... How could I fight somebody like her...?
Lewyn: That's enough, Seliph! This is a war! If you can't stand it any more, then go on! Run home to Tirnanog!
Seliph: Lewyn...
Oifey: I beg your pardon, Lord Lewyn?! His Majesty is tired and stressed. Such harsh words are uncalled for...
Lewyn: Look, I know... But everyone is just as stressed as he is, yet they all know that we can't afford to stop. With the resurrection of Loptous lurking on the horizon, it's crucial we get to Grannvale and stop the world falling to ruin while we still can.
Seliph: Thank you, Oifey... but Lewyn speaks the truth. An inevitable battle lies ahead, and if we see in it naught by futility, then my duty is to carve my own purpose into it. Come, Oifey! Lewyn! I'll never again flinch or turn away!
Leif: Is something wrong, Finn? You've been awfully quiet since we left Manster... Is something on your mind?
Finn: Oh... Yes my lord. I don't suppose you saw a lone dracoknight lurking atop the mountains of Manster?
Leif: Oh, the woman? I saw her. I don't believe it's every day that you encounter a female dracoknight, is it? Was there something amiss about her?
Finn: It was her weapon... She was wielding Gáe Bolg, Leonster's holy lance. And I sensed an aura cloaking her... The holy aura of Njörun, like your father.
Leif: What? What are you saying, Finn?!
Finn: There is only one explanation, my lord. Your sister, Altena, mustn't have died in the Thracian ambush seventeen years ago. Nor must Gáe Bolg have been lost...
Leif: Altena?! She... She's still alive?! Then... Then what in the blazes was she doing commanding the Thracian army?
Finn: I'd surmise that Travant took her back to Thracia as a child, and raised her as his own.
Leif: Huh... Who knew a man as cold as Travant could do something so humane?
Finn: It isn't so simple, my lord. Altena is the sole inheritor of your father's holy lineage from the earth goddess, Njörun. As such, unlike you, she alone is capable of wielding Gáe Bolg. Power is the only reason a man like Travant would ever be so kind to his enemy's child.
Leif: So he's tricked my sister just so he can use her like a... like a weapon! Travant... What a disgusting man... ...I want to help her, Finn. If we can tell her the truth, then I know we can work together to avenge our parents.
Finn: My lord, I believe you're the only one who could possibly convince her now. Even after all these years, my lord, you are still her brother. I'm certain she will open her heart to you if you try. Please, my lord. Please save Lady Altena...

@Battle 
Hannibal: Hm... The rebels are on the move, are they?
Kanatz: Lord Hannibal! We're ready to attack at any moment. We await your command.
Hannibal: Wait. For the time being we should remain on the defensive. I'd prefer to avoid any needless skirmishes with the enemy.
Kanatz: But sire, what about...
Hannibal: ...My son? I know... I know, but... For now, I would rather hold back and let the battle unfold on its own first. My apologies, Kanatz, but I'd like you to take charge of defending the castle.
Kanatz: As you will, sire!

Altena: All units, move in and engage the rebels! We will return Meath to Thracian control!

Distler: What a sorry joke... Me, a distinguished general, stuck babysitting some brat?
Cairpre: Excuse me, Mister Distler, but... Let me go! Papa doesn't want to fight. He's out there risking his life all because of me!
Distler: Silence, boy! If Thracia's legendary Shield refuses to ply his warrior's craft of his own will, then we will force him to, by any means necessary!
Cairpre: Oh, Papa... Sorry...

Arion: Father, I've received grave news! It's Altena... She has fallen in battle.
Travant: I see... Very well, then. I suppose there's little choice now... I'm going to join the fray, Arion. You're in charge of defending the castle. I'll entrust this spear to you... And with it, the future of Thracia.
Arion: Hold on a moment, Father... This is Gungnir! What is the meaning of this? How do you intend to fight without it? Unless... Father, you can't be-
Travant: I am. Frankly, Arion, I've had enough. Thracia is yours to do with as you see fit. But we don't need to be hated by their kind...
Arion: Are you seriously suggesting I should seek a truce, Father? No! Never! To comply with the rebels now would be unthinkable!
Travant: As I said, Thracia is yours. Do as you see fit. All I ask is for you to find a way to liberate Thracia's people from their suffering... Farewell, Arion.
Arion: Father...

Hannibal: King Travant has joined the battle, has he? Hrm... I suppose I've no choice. My duty as a warrior demands it... Move in on the invaders! We'll let them proceed no further!

Arion: Altena! Are you alright?
Altena: Nngh? ...Oh... Arion...
Arion: My apologies, Altena. I had to give Father a convincing show, that I might ensure your survival. I had no choice but to deal such a powerful blow.
Altena: Don't worry, Arion. I understand. But where is Fath... er, King Travant now?
Arion: You won't see him again... Father has died in battle.
Altena: He has? ...How did it happen?
Arion: You'd be better off not knowing. Father's heart was an enigma at the best of times...
Altena: ...Listen, Arion. What do you think I should do now?
Arion: Join Prince Leif, your true brother. I'm certain he is still waiting for you.
Altena: Then what will you-
Arion: Altena... This is my fate. There's no helping it.
Altena: No! You can call for a truce, Arion! Now that Travant's dead, there's nothing at all to stop you from seeking peace! And I... I could never fight you!
Arion: I wish I could, and I would were it not for Father's final words to me... Please, Altena... Go! However, be prepared. Our next meeting shall be on the battlefield, and I will not stay my hand!
Altena: Oh... Arion...

Lewyn: Bad news, Seliph. Looks like General Hannibal only opposed us because they're holding his son hostage. He never wanted to fight...
Seliph: This cannot be... I've made a horrid mistake! Oh, General Hannibal... Please forgive me...

Lewyn: It looks like they've been holding a child in the dungeon, Seliph.
Seliph: Who are you? What's the matter?
Cairpre: I'm Cairpre... I'm General Hannibal's son. And... Wait... Aren't you Lord Seliph, the liberator?!
Seliph: Indeed I am. If I may ask, Cairpre, why would Thracia imprison one of their own general's sons?
Cairpre: King Travant took me hostage. Papa didn't want to fight your army at all, sir! The king threatened my life to force Papa to fight... Please, sir... Please take me to Papa! If Papa knows I'm safe, then he won't have to keep fighting! Please! We've gotta save him!
Seliph: I see... Don't worry. I promise we'll find him. Move out, everyone. I pray we'll still be in time to save General Hannibal!
Lewyn: Bad news, Seliph. By the sound of it, they were holding General Hannibal's son hostage here.
Seliph: Hannibal must have been forced to fight solely to protect his son! How appalling...
Lewyn: The son, Cairpre, seems to have vanished. He must've heard of his father's death. He probably couldn't stand to see any of us right now.
Seliph: Blast...

Judah: The enemy has got their grubby paws on Kapathogia?! I should've known better than to trust those worthless Thracians... I suppose it was unavoidable... Fortify our defensive line. Until reinforcements arrive, we must defend the castle at all costs.

Musar: So this is the infamous Thracia... I've never seen such a bleak wasteland! Heh, no matter. The rebels' little rampage ends here. Ready, men? We're going in. The Emperor himself's put a handsome bounty on each rebel head. We mustn't waste a chance to claim it for ourselves!

Seliph: Lewyn, do you think Arion still intends to fight us?
Lewyn: Looks like it. I've sent envoy after envoy offering a truce, but he's not responding. I guess his stubborn dracoknight pride compels him to fight to the bitter end. And here I was hoping the legendary Arion of Thracia'd be a wiser man than this... Seliph, I hope you understand we can't turn back now. This last battle needs to be fought.
Seliph: I don't understand him... Why? Why must Arion insist on fighting such a futile battle...

Seliph: Arion... How can he be so callous? Does he not understand the grief he is inflicting on Altena?!

Arion: The enemy has come as far as Grutia... Very well. All hands, deploy at once! Engage them in the Dragon Trinity Strike formation! This is our final chance. Thracia's destiny hangs in the balance of this final assault!

Arion: They've come at last... Move out! Whether we win or die, we'll have fought in our fatherland's name! Wyvern knights! Descend upon the enemy!

@End 
Seliph: Julia?! You’re safe! Oh, thank heavens...
Julia: Mm... The enemy seized and imprisoned me here, but I knew... I knew you would rescue me, no matter what.

Seliph: Say, Lewyn... Did my eyes deceive me, or did Arion really vanish like that?
Lewyn: Yeah, he did. Witnesses to the fight are saying Prince Julius appeared and took Arion.
Seliph: The Emperor's son himself?
Lewyn: Mm... and your half-brother, at that...
Seliph: I can hardly believe we share a mother...
Lewyn: And yet you do. Empress Deirdre was a talented priestess, and it looks like he inherited her skill with white magic. For Prince Julius, common warping and healing spells are the merest of trifles. He doesn't even need staves! But that's not the whole story, Seliph. Prince Julius's true power comes from something else entirely...
Seliph: How do you mean?
Lewyn: Loptous... It's the power of the dark lord...

@Visit 
Young man: I heard tell that the Empire’s gonna send reinforcements to come after ya. Sounds like Sir Musar’s leading the charge. Legend has it his father fell at the hands of a Silessian knight who’s now among ya. You best take care. Odds are he’s lustin’ for a bit of revenge. 

Young man: Oh, hey! You've gone and sorted out them Imperial reinforcements already? Wow... I'm pretty dang impressed!

Woman: Thracia has many generals in its service, but Lord Hannibal is the most revered of 'em all. The man has devoted nigh on his entire life to the battlefield, so he never found a wife. Mind, twelve years ago or so, he did take in an orphan. He treats the boy as if he's his own flesh and blood. What a wonderful guy!

Old man: They say a priest from a dark cult has got his foul hands on Grutia. Could it be true? Make no mistake. I know well the life King Travant is trying to crawl free of... But to allow a fell agent of the Loptyrian Order free run of his country... How could he make such a foolish choice? Accept this here barrier ring... And with it, please, save our beloved nation!

Old woman: King Travant's as heartless as men come, he is. But oddly enough, his two kids, Arion and Altena, are the kindest souls you'll ever meet. Like peas in a pod, those two are! Always have been. Oh, I pray nothing ever changes that...

Young man: General Distler of Luthecia's nothing more than a slimy toady to the king! Useless as he is, he still acts all like he's some almighty tyrant... What a foul little man.

“Shannan”: Wow, what a beauty...
Jeanne/Femina: ...Excuse me?
Shannam: Oh, how rude of me! Y'see, I'm the prince of the great state of Isaach. Call me Shannan. And you're just too pretty, miss! I had to meet you, y'know? If I may be so bold, how'd you like to go get a nice, hot meal with me? I know the most charming little tavern...
Jeanne/Femina: .....
Shannam: Something wrong, miss? Oh, I see! You're all nervous 'cause you stand before me, the great Prince Shannan, aren't you? Don't worry about it! How I look doesn't matter, 'cause to me, stayin' close with the peasants is the most important thing there is.
Jeanne/Femina: Huh... So you're... Alright, then. Show me Balmung! I've always wanted to see it for myself!
Shannam: Huh? B-Balmung? Oh, yeah! The Balmung... Oh, er... Here you go! Look! It's the Balmung, the great dracoshield! How about that, huh? Now, where were we? Dinner, right?
Jeanne/Femina: Oh, you imbecile! Everybody knows that Balmung isn't a shield! You're nothing like the real Prince Shannan!
???: Oh, geez... You're part of that liberation army, aren't you? Look, I'm real sorry! It's just... Women've been fawnin' over me left and right ever since I took to callin' myself Shannan. Here, take the bloody shield. Let's pretend this never happened, alright?
Jeanne/Femina: Honestly... What a pig! Oh, well. I guess this shield'll help me to toughen up a bit.

Man: It wasn't all that long ago that the region here was under House Leonster's rule. Oh, what a peaceful time that was... As soon as the last war was over, though, the Thracians pounced on us like a starving cat...

@Battle-Talk 
%Faval,Patty
Faval: Patty! Hey! PATTY! Don’t tell me you’ve been stealing again!
Patty: Oh, er... Yep. Just a bit, though!
Faval: Ugh. Look, I don't care if you're just stealing from the enemy. I don't like you stealing at all! Knock it off, okay?
Patty: What, d'you think I like doing this? That I'm stealing for the fun of it?! This army needs to eat, y'know, and we need gold for that! We don't exactly have many options here!
Faval: Yeah, but haven’t you heard what people are saying about you? I caught this guy mocking you, like being a thief’s a walking punch line... “What else didja expect from being a pirate’s brat? Like mother, like child,” he kept saying. Of course, I wiped the floor with him for that...
Patty: It doesn’t matter what people think, Faval! Let them say whatever they want. Doesn’t change a thing about Mom... And it doesn’t change that she was an heir of Ullur the crusader! I was in tears when Lewyn told me about her... I’ve never been so happy!
Faval: Yeah, me too. Y’know, we haven’t exactly had the best lives. Poor orphans and all that... But I never even dreamed that our mother could be a noblewoman! I don’t suppose you remember anything about her, Patty?
Patty: Nope! Not a thing... You?
Faval: Yeah, but... only just a little... She was a kind and beautiful woman... 
Patty: So is she... Do you think Mom’s dead?
Faval: I can’t say for sure... But as soon as the war’s done, Patty, we're gonna go look for her. We’ll find our mother... Bridget... And even though we don’t know his name, maybe we’ll find our father, too... 

%Asaello,Daisy
Asaello: Daisy! Hey! DAISY! Don't tell me you've been stealing again!
Daisy: Oh, er... Yep. Just a bit, though!
Asaello: Ugh. Look, I don't care if you're just stealing from the enemy. I don't like you stealing at all! Knock it off, okay?
Daisy: What, d'you think I like doing this? That I'm stealing for the fun of it?! This army needs to eat, y'know, and we need gold for that! We don't exactly have many options here!
Asaello: But-
Daisy: And what about the kids back in Connaught, huh? They need money to get by as well, and I can't just leave them to starve!
Asaello: Yeah, I guess you're right... I hope they're doing okay.
Daisy: Don't act like you don't have to help too, Asaello! You're sitting on a tidy little fortune from arena prizes. You'd better not waste it!
Asaello: Gah, I knew that'd come back to bite me...

%Leif,Altena
Leif: Waaaaait! Please, my sister! Stop it!
Altena: Your sister?! ...Who are you, and why do you think calling me your sister is a good idea?
Leif: I... I am Leif, of House Leonster.
Altena: Leif? Oh, I see... The famous Prince Leif, is it? In case it wasn't obvious... And, evidently, it wasn't... I am Altena, daughter of Travant.
Leif: Listen to me, Altena! Your true parents are Quan and Ethlyn, whom Travant slew seventeen years ago. You vanished in Travant's attack, and so too did Gáe Bolg, the sacred earth lance of Leonster. Which, I might add, is the very lance resting in your hand as we speak! Only a true heir of House Leonster can wield Gáe Bolg.
Altena: What are you talking about?! Are you seriously trying to claim my real father is my father's arch-enemy? That could never be... It mustn't...
Leif: Look into my eyes. If anything can prove the truth of my words to you, it will be my eyes. Please, sister...
Altena: Fine... ...What is this?! I know you're lying, but I... I can't bring myself to doubt you anymore!
Leif: ...Altena!
Altena: Wait! I... I must speak with Father. I need to confirm this...
Travant: Altena? Oh, you have got to be joking. Why? Why, why WHY did you abandon your post for the second time in as many days?
Altena: My apologies, Father... but I have an urgent question to ask of you. Are you my father? Or was my father really King Quan?!
Travant: Feh... I see you've found out at last. Well, I suppose it was only a matter of time before this day came. It's true. Quan did indeed sire you, but what difference does it make now? It doesn't change that it is I who raised you.
Altena: So you... You murdered my parents, Father...
Travant: Heh heh... I suppose I did. Quan and Ethlyn died at my hand. Do you take issue with that? War is hell, Altena. War claims lives. Worrying now won't change a thing.
Altena: Gah... How dare you! How dare you mislead me all these years, Father! Er, no... Travant!
Arion: That's enough, Altena!
Altena: Get out of my way, Arion! This man dies here and now, and nobody can stop me! Not even you!
Arion: I cannot allow this. If you dare to turn on Father, then you'll have to contend with me first!
Altena: W-wait! I can't fight you, Arion! I could never-
Arion: It's too late for you to stand down now... Farewell, Altena!
Altena: Nngh... Arion...
Travant: ...You didn't just kill her, did you, Arion? You know, you didn't need to go quite so far... Eh, no matter. I'm going to join the fray, Arion. I suppose there's little choice now... You're in charge of defending the castle.
Arion: Understood, Father.
Travant: I'll entrust this spear to you... and with it, the future of Thracia.
Arion: Hold on a moment, Father... This is Gungnir! What is the meaning of this? How do you intend to fight without it? Unless... Father, you can't be-
Travant: I am. Frankly, Arion, I've had enough. Thracia is yours to do with as you see fit. But we don't need to be hated by their kind...
Arion: Are you seriously suggesting I should seek a truce, Father? No! Never! To comply with the rebels now would be unthinkable!
Travant: As I said, Thracia is yours. Do as you see fit. All I ask is for you to find a way to liberate Thracia's people from their suffering... Farewell, Arion.
Arion: Father...

%Seliph,Altena
Altena: Pardon me, Lord Seliph. My name is Altena... Daughter of Quan of Leonster. My brother, Prince Leif, has explained the truth to me, and I can no longer oppose you. If you please, I'd like to join your ranks.
Seliph: Princess Altena?! ...Ah, yes. That's right! Prince Leif has told me everything, and we've both prayed you would come... He'll be so glad to know you've joined us. You've made a difficult but wise decision.
Altena: ...I can still scarcely believe this has all happened. And yet, the moment I gazed into my brother's eyes, I understood everything. His eyes revealed my father's warm gaze... And as clear as if it were only yesterday, I felt for a split second as if I were a mere baby, once more swaddled in my mother's gentle arms...
Seliph: I admit I'm still not entirely sure what King Travant was trying to do with you. I still cannot see what would have led him to spare you and bring you home after murdering your parents...
Altena: I've heard he once told my brother, Arion, that he sought to use the might of Leonster's holy lance, Gáe Bolg, as his own. For that alone, he needed me...
Seliph: You were a little more than a tool to him?
Altena: I... I'm still not entirely sure. For all his cruelty, he still treated me as if I were his true daughter. He was still a father to me.
Seliph: Did he, now... I suppose I've never known much of his ways.
Altena: I must ask a favor of you, milord. It's about Arion... We need to help Prince Arion!
Seliph: Certainly! I'm hardly eager to fight a man of his fine caliber, if what I've heard is true. The only question is, can we convince him?
Altena: I'll do my best to persuade him again. All I ask is a little time: Please, milord!

%Patty,Cairpre
Patty: Hmph... So you're that Cairpre guy? Here I thought the son of the great General Hannibal'd be this amazingly hot guy, but you're just some snotty kid...
Cairpre: You're not any better yourself, you know.
Patty: Oh, excuse you! Are you really trying to say I just look like a child?
Cairpre: Yeah. I really am, because you really do.
Patty: Nrrrgh... Y-you little... You JERK!

@Recruit-Talk
%Cairpre,Hannibal
Cairpre: Papa, stop! It's me! You don't have to fight now! The liberators have gone and captured Luthecia!
Hannibal: Cairpre?! You... You're safe!
Cairpre: Yep! Listen, Papa... I want to join Lord Seliph's army. Thracia's changed so much lately... I want to fight to help all its people, and bring back the old Thracia!
Hannibal: You've grown into such a splendid young man, Cairpre... Very well! I, too, shall serve Lord Seliph.
Cairpre: Yes! Thank you, Papa! First we'll help free Thracia, and then together, we'll challenge the Empire!

@Battle-Talk 
%Seliph,Hannibal
Seliph: General Hannibal, it is an honor to meet you at last. Please accept my apologies for engaging you in such a pointless battle.
Hannibal: Lord Seliph... it is I who need apologize, not you. You have my deepest gratitude for all you've done to rescue my son...
Seliph: Your reputation precedes you, General. We've all heard of Thracia’s great Shield. That a warrior of your caliber was coerced onto the battlefield by use of hostages... King Travant is an utterly sickening man!
Hannibal: Indeed... And a pitiful man, at that. All he has accomplished is shattering any trust his subjects once held in him. The people's hearts can only endure so much abuse before they break...
Seliph: If I may, General, would you join us? To have the power and wisdom of a great general like you would be the finest boon. 
Hannibal: Very well! If you have a use even for these old bones, Lord Seliph, then you have my fealty.

%Lene,Cairpre
Lene: You're Cairpre, right?
Cairpre: Oh, y-yes... I am.
Lene: I hear you're an orphan too, right? D'you remember anything at all from being a kid?
Cairpre: No, sorry. Nothing at all. I think I was still just a baby when Papa came to Darna and took me in...
Lene: Wait, you're from Darna, too?!
Cairpre: Are you familiar with Darna, Lene?
Lene: Yep. I grew up in the Darna abbey. They told me my mom, who I think was a dancer as well, left me there when I was just about two years old. And that's why I'm a dancer now. See, what I was thinking was that maybe, if I did the same thing as her, one day I might find my mom again. It's a bit embarrassing, but I taught myself everything I know about dancing.
Cairpre: Huh. That's really great of you, Lene! I, er, guess I thought wrong about you...
Lene: Not a big fan of dancers, Cairpre?
Cairpre: Not really, no... At least, I wasn't until I met you, Lene.
Lene: Aww! Thanks, Cairpre!

%Leylia,Sharlow
Leylia: Hey! You’re Sharlow, right?
Sharlow: Huh? Sorry, but who are you, miss?
Leylia: I’m Leylia! Er, you’ve never seen a dancer before, have you?
Sharlow: No, sorry... Not yet. 
Leylia: Heh! Y’know, if you ever have time to spare, I can show you a bit of dancing. Deal?
Sharlow: T-thank you... 

%Julia,Seliph
Julia: Are you at all hurt, Lord Seliph?
Seliph: Ah, Julia! No, I'm fine, thank you. I pray you're taking care of yourself.
Julia: Lord Seliph...
Seliph: Is something amiss?
Julia: Er... No, it's nothing...
Seliph: Listen, Julia. You've been acting oddly all day. Is something troubling you?
Julia: I... All I can feel is dread... I feel as if I'll be torn from you, and we'll never see each other again... I... I'm terrified...
Seliph: You've no need to worry, Julia. I swore to you all those months ago that I'll protect you, no matter what. Have faith, Julia. I'll never let you down.
Julia: I know... I do believe in you... I'm so sorry, Lord Seliph... I've never been more than a nuisance to you.
Seliph: You must be weary. We have been on the march for weeks on end, after all! Listen. Once we're done here, we'll be headed for the free city of Miletos. You can have a nice, long rest there. Oh, that's right! Miletos is famous for its merchants, no? I can take you shopping while we're there. I'll buy you anything you desire. Well, so long as it's not too pricey. Heh... I can only imagine how poorly Lewyn would handle any over-spending!
Julia: You would do that...? Oh, thank you, Lord Seliph... Thank you...
Seliph: Is that a little smile I see before me? Heh, now that's more like it!
Julia: Lord Seliph... Close your eyes, please.
Seliph: Hm? Why do you ask?
Julia: I wish to cast a Ward spell upon you... It will help you better resist enemy magic.
Seliph: Are you sure, Julia?! Wouldn't the use of such a spell endanger you?
Julia: Everything will be alright... I've done naught but take and take so far. All I want is to give something back.
Seliph: Julia...
Julia: Oh, lords in the heavens above... I implore you, confer your blessings upon Lord Seliph...

%Finn,Altena
Finn: Pardon me, my lady... I am Finn, a knight of House Leonster. It is an honor to meet you once more.
Altena: So you're Sir Finn, then? Leif's told me about you already. I can't thank you enough for all you've done to protect him all these years.
Finn: Thank you, my lady, but it is I who owes you an apology. Not once in the past seventeen years did I ever suspect that you yet lived on, let alone just across the border! My failure to search for you is... is inexcusable...
Altena: Sir Finn... Are those tears I see? Why... Why are you crying?
Finn: I... My apologies, my lady. You shouldn't have to see me in such a state as this...
Altena: Hold a moment... I remember something... Yes, I... I was incredibly fond of you... And I always sought your attention, didn't I? That's right... Sir Finn...
Finn: My lady, I...

%Hannibal,Altena
Hannibal: Princess Altena. I've been filled in on your situation. You have my deepest condolences.
Altena: General Hannibal... You've chosen to ally with Lord Seliph as well, have you? Thank goodness... I was dreading the very idea of considering you an enemy as well.
Hannibal: Hm. Pray tell, milady, what has become of Prince Arion?
Altena: My broth- Er, no... Arion simply refused to listen to anything I said. Perhaps you would have better luck persuading him, sir?
Hannibal: If you couldn't convince him, milady, then nothing has a chance. I would surmise that Prince Arion is resolving to die a warrior's death, not giving in to the indignity of a truce. We've no choice left.
Altena: But sir-
Hannibal: I know how you feel, milady... But some men like Arion are stubborner than mules. Most likely, Prince Arion would never wish to reveal such perceived weakness before you. Please understand this at lest, milady...

%Sharlow,Hannibal
Hannibal: Sharlow...
Sharlow: Hm? Is something wrong, Papa?
Hannibal: Son... I feel as if I am in some way responsible for all of your misfortunes... If you’d been raised by a normal family, rather than a soldier such as myself, you would have never been abducted... 
Sharlow: Don’t say things like that, Papa! I’m as happy as can be to live with you! And thanks to you, I’m using my magic to help you all fight for peace and justice. I wouldn’t give that up for anything!
Hannibal: I see...
Sharlow: Oh, and by the way.
Hannibal: ...Yes?
Sharlow: I’m so proud that you’re my papa, Papa... Kapathogia’s people love you so much. They all say you’re the best thing that ever happened to them. Not to mention, you adopted an orphan!
Hannibal: They do, do they... Thank you, Sharlow. I’m so glad I have such a fine son... Which reminds me. This staff is for you. I found it discarded in the castle grounds. I believe you’re skilled enough to wield it.
Sharlow: Ohh! And it’s a lovely staff, too! Thank you, Papa! Thank you so much. 

@Battle
Villager: Hee hee hee!
Hawke: Hm?
Villager: Would ya believe it? I was sittin’ around the town square and this girl confessed her love to me... It feels so, SO great! Wish I could share my happiness with ya!
Hawke: Er... 
Villager: Hang on! You’re with the liberators, right? Here, take this town’s famous tonic and secret book!
Hawke: T-thank you... 
Villager: Love’s such a wondrous thing... You oughta find someone to love, too!

@Boss 
Kanatz: My lord Hannibal is depending on me to defend this castle. If you wish to claim it, you must first claim my life!

Kanatz: General Hannibal... Forgive me, my liege...

Hannibal: Must we fight...? I suppose I have no choice. In Thracia's name, then...

Hannibal: Ohh, my son... Please... Survive...

Distler: The rebels are already here?! Blast... We aren't ready for this!

Distler: Nngh... King Travant... I beg... your forgiveness...

Musar: Death to all rebel scum! Only oblivion awaits those who dare to threaten the Empire!

Musar: Glory be... to Grannvale! 

Judah: A liberation army, is it... There is no place for your precious light in this realm. This world is Lord Loptous's to smother in darkness!

Judah: Heh... Lord Loptous's return is nigh... And when it comes... You will all...

@Recruit-Battle 
Altena: Stand down before I cut you down. You will never win!

Altena: Arion... Oh, Arion...

%Leif,Altena
Altena: You're Leonster's prince, are you? How dare you try to steal our land!
Leif: Please, stay your hand! You... You're my-
Altena: Silence! Spare me your ravings!

%Finn,Altena
Altena: My apologies, but you shall fall here...
Finn: Oh! L-Lady Altena! It is you... It really is you...

@Boss 
Travant: Heh heh heh... Welcome, rebel scum. I am Travant. Remember this well: a final gift from the depths of the inferno!

Travant: Thracia... Nngh... My beautiful fatherland...

%Leif,Travant
Travant: Heh heh heh... So! You're Quan's troublesome little son, are you? What a fool Blume was... How could he have failed to kill a runt like you?
Leif: We meet at last, Travant... I... I've awaited this day for so long. This is what kept me alive all this time... I've lived for this alone: to choke the life from you with my bare hands!
Travant: Heh... As foolish as your father... And unlike him, you can't even wield the Gáe Bolg! You don't stand a chance! Now, hold still! It's time you learned the last agonies your father felt at my hands!

%Finn,Travant
Travant: Ah, yes. The famous Finn! Still clinging to life, are you?
Finn: Prepare yourself, King Travant! Today, I avenge my fallen lord!
Travant: Hah! How laughable! A common soldier like you could never even scratch me! I take it you're ready to die, then?

@Boss
Arion: Heh... What fools. You dare challenge me, even knowing I wield Gungnir, the heavenly lance?

%Seliph,Arion
Arion: So... You're the famous Prince Seliph... Heh, I trust you'll make for a fine foe. Shall we begin our duel, then?
Seliph: Prince Arion, please! Lay down your arms! It isn't too late to end this peacefully!
Arion: Enough! I've nothing left to say. Now, come! Come acquaint yourself with Gungnir, Seliph!

%Altena,Arion
Altena: Stop this madness, Arion! We've no reason to fight!
Arion: Altena... I see you're in good health. I for one have long sought to test my skills against you. Now, come at me! I won't hold back!
Altena: Oh... Arion...

@Boss
Arion: How... How could this be?! I've... I've brought shame on myself... Altena...
Julius: Arion. This place will not be your grave. I forbid it. Heh heh... Join me.
/***EOF***/
@Opening 
With Thracia's downfall, Seliph sets his sights on his final destination: Grannvale. His route to the Empire takes him through the Miletos District, a collective of free cities which was once a vibrant and wealthy hub of commerce for all of Jugdral. 

Now, though, only a dying land choked by the Empire and Loptyrian Order lies before Seliph. At Chronos Castle, the seemingly mad rule of Queen Hilda has condemned countless citizens to savage, merciless deaths. And in the Rados region, Bishop Morrigan, under the command of Archbishop Manfroy, conducts child hunt after child hunt. Wealth. Liberty. Hope. Even life itself... All crumbled through the people's fingers. 

As the evil cult plies its sacrificial rituals and pile the bodies of their victims even higher, Seliph knows he cannot leave Miletos be. Greeted by raucous cheers from the people, the liberation army routed the Empire's men, freeing the city of Perlucos. The hope of Miletos had slowly been rotting away in the Empire's hands, but at long last, the arrival of Seliph and his liberation army breathes new life into the nation's future.

@Intro 
Julius: Ishtar, what's the status here?
Ishtar: Everything is moving smoothly according to your plan, Lord Julius.
Julius: Heh... I wonder what it must be like to be as terrified of our sacrifices to the dark lord as the peasants must be.
Ishtar: I've seen it myself. Knowing their children are doomed to the stake nigh drives them mad with grief... Particularly the mothers...
Julius: Hmhmhm... Magnificent. Let them learn now the true meaning of despair. Let their will to live erode and crumble. Let them become little more than ragdolls. Let them become the ideal slaves for the rise of the Loptous Empire.
Ishtar: Also, it seems we've captured far too many children. This castle simply doesn't have the room for them all. How shall I handle this?
Julius: Send them to Belhalla at once. I will groom them personally, I think. Friends, family... it matters not. By the end they will despise each other, ready to kill their own in power's name. Only the fittest will survive, and these fittest will become the ideal citizens of Loptous's new world.
Ishtar: But Lord Julius... What of your father? What of Emperor Arvis? The emperor refuses to allow any child hunts under his watch.
Julius: My father? Heh... My father is not worth fretting over, Ishtar. I will persuade him easily...

Ishtar: Lord Julius...
Hilda: Ishtar! Where is His Highness?
Ishtar: Oh, Mother... The prince just departed for Belhalla.
Hilda: He did, did he? ...You know, Ishtar, I daresay the prince has quite the love for you. Hell, I'm already hearing the wedding bells ring!
Ishtar: I... I don't-
Hilda: Open your ears, Ishtar! Freege is by far the most esteemed of Grannvales noble houses, and I, like the Emperor himself, am of House Velthomer. There is nobody in this land who could ever be worthier to the prince's hand than you!
Ishtar: A-as you say...
Hilda: Now, then! We have more pressing matters ahead. Those rebels, murderers of my dear husband and son, are coming our way, Ishtar! Not only that, they dared to steal Alster from us! Never has history given Freege a more dire enemy than Seliph, his father and all of his kin! I shall await them here at Chronos, that I may give them the welcome they deserve. You run along to Miletos. After all, those brats won't arrange their own journey to Belhalla!
Ishtar: Yes, Mother...
Dark mage: Your Majesty, the mages are in position. However, er... we have a slight problem. A small few children escaped our hold amidst the cover of confusion from our deployment. What are your orders?
Hilda: Excuse me?! How dare anyone under my command be so incompetent... No matter. Kill them all. Teach them all a lesson. Relay this command to General Riddell at Rados. He is to put them all down at once.

Girl: Er... Where do we run now?
Boy: Sorry, I dunno.
Girl: But... But if we get...
Boy: Don't cry! It... It'll all be fine! Don't ya know? The crusaders are coming! They'll save us all. I know it!
Girl: Sniff... I guess you're right. The crusaders'll come. They will... They will...

Morrigan: Ah, General Riddell. We've got orders for you from Queen Hilda. She wants you to move out at once.
Riddell: Excellent. It's high time that we had work which better befits knights. I am absolutely fed up with hunting children! I swear, if I have to hunt even one more child...
Morrigan: Oh, what a pity that is. You see, we've a handful of escaped brats who are all in sore need of an execution.
Riddell: Oh, for the love of...
Morrigan: What's this? Are you, a loyal Imperial general, dissatisfied with your orders? Do I smell a filthy traitor to the trust of His Imperial Majesty, Emperor Arvis?
Riddell: ...No, sir. I could... I could never consider betraying His Majesty... Very well. I suppose I have no choice...
Morrigan: Hmph... Honor of a knight? How quaint.

Manfroy: Princess Julia. At last, I've found you...
Julia: Huh? Who are you?
Manfroy: Heh... The shock stripped you of your memory all those years ago, did it? Perfect. Now, come!
Julia: N-no! Take your hands off me!
Manfroy: Heh heh... You cannot resist fate, my dear. Now, cease your struggle and come along...
Julia: No! Ahh... Lord Seliph... Help... me...

Lewyn: Seliph, I'm hearing that a couple of children have just fled Chronos. Unless we step in now, they're sure to meet a grisly end.
Seliph: Children?! Very well. We'll move out at once. I won't rest until every last one is safe.
Lewyn: We've got another problem, too. It's Julia... She's gone. I've searched high and low, but she's nowhere in sight.
Seliph: No! Oh, no... How could this be...
Lewyn: I can't believe it, either, but that's how it is... My guess is the enemy seized her. But why... Why would they only target Julia? This doesn't make any sense...
Seliph: Gah... Hold on, Julia, wherever you are... No matter what happens, we'll find you!

@Battle 
Riddell: Well, we've no need to make haste here. Men, move out... but at a leisurely pace.

Seliph: Any luck finding the children, Lewyn?
Lewyn: Nope, no luck. Looks like they've already been sent to Miletos. Let's move! There's no time to lose while they're still in danger.
Lewyn: But it looks like we'll need to capture Rados as well, if we're going to get the gates to Miletos open.
Seliph: Understood. Castle Rados is our next challenge, then!

Seliph: This is... It's like a ghost town...
Lewyn: The handiwork of Morrigan's mages, I hear. Any who dared to resist met a grisly end...
Seliph: How could they... How could anyone be so savage...
Lewyn: And that's why we've got to fight this war to the end, Seliph. This is something you've got to understand. This is the way of the Loptous Empire. They have no place at all for the good-hearted...
Lewyn: Now, it shouldn't be too long before the gate through to Miletos opens for us. What's your next move, Seliph?
Seliph: Needless to say, we must march on Miletos. We can't afford to rest while those children are still at risk... Or Julia for that matter.
Lewyn: Good. And after that, Grannvale awaits!

Arvis: It has been a long time, Ishtar. How fare you of late?
Ishtar: Oh, Your Majesty! What brings you here?
Arvis: Listen, Ishtar. Release the captive children. I know you care no more for these foul deeds than I do.
Ishtar: My apologies, sir, but I'm on Prince Julius's-
Arvis: Pay Julius's orders no mind. I'll be having a word with him soon.
Ishtar: But...
Arvis: This is an order from your emperor, Ishtar! Has Julius bent you such that you will no longer listen to the word of your liege?
Ishtar: No... Never, Your Highness...
Julius: I think not, Father. Ishtar is mine. Your selfish ways are so bothersome.
Arvis: Julius! How dare you-
Julius: Why, Father, it almost sounds as if you still don't know any better! Old age must already be dulling that once brilliant mind of yours. Why not retire before it grows still feebler? Unless... Ohoho! Don't tell me you still seriously believe that you can banish me?
Arvis: No... I know better than to try something so futile again... I... I have no further objection.
Julius: That's better. Now, then. Begone! Return to your post and haunt my sight no more. Defending Chalphy is crucial. Don't fail me for once in your sorry life, Father.
Arvis: Y-yes, Julius. At once...
Manfroy: Hmhmhm... How the mighty have fallen! Never would you think this wretch, now clinging only to the ghost of a crown, was once the most powerful man in Jugdral.
Julius: Ah, Manfroy. Where's Julia? Have you restored her memory yet?
Manfroy: Your dear little sister is in Chalphy, burdened once more by her old memories. Never have I seen such horror as when she recalled how you, her brother, almost killed her! Or how her dearly departed mother spirited her clear of the castle and your clutches...
Julius: Indeed... Near everyone puts up some defiance to death by my hand, yet Deirdre never so much as flinched in the end. She accepted her own demise, all to save Julia with what little strength she still had... Julia possesses the foul powers of that ghoul, Naga, just as Deirdre once did. Nothing is more crucial than killing her now, Manfroy, lest we lose the chance.
Manfroy: You overestimate her threat, milord. After all, the Book of Naga remains under the strictest lock and key in Belhalla. Without it, I cannot fathom how Naga's soul could ever come to dwell within that girl...
Julius: How many times must I explain, Manfroy? Every last one of the avatars of Naga, the heirs of Heim, must be purged from existence!
Manfroy: Understood, milord. I'll have my men see to it that Julia is dead by sundown.
Julius: Do not fail me Manfroy. Now, then. I suppose I'm needed in the capital. I shall ensure that holding the Miletos territory is the Order's highest priority.
Manfroy: Before the week is done, Your Majesty, the corpse of Seliph will lie before you.
Julius: Seliph? ...Ah, of course. The one the peasants call the "scion of light"... Feh, just as they call me the "scion of darkness". The alleged eldest son of Deirdre, and the alleged true heir of Grannvale... A fairy tale, told to inspire hope amongst fools!
Manfroy: He poses a threat to us nonetheless, milord. The sooner we dispose of him, the better.
Julius: Surely he doesn't truly bear the power of the crusader Baldr... He couldn't possibly... I might not care about him, Manfroy, but you're welcome to do with him as you will.
Manfroy: Very good, milord...
Ishtar: Lord Julius...
Julius: Ishtar. Shall we be off, then? I've tasked the Order to defend Miletos. Say... I have a better idea. I want to play a game. Rumor has it that a small army of fresh sacrificial meat is headed our way. Let's see who can claim the life of a rebel first.
Ishtar: Yes, Lord Julius. I'd love to!

Ishtar: Heh! That's the end of it, Lord Julius. I've won.
Julius: Hrm... Not bad at all, Ishtar.

Julius: Heh... Such an easy win, Ishtar.
Ishtar: Masterfully done, Lord Julius! I expected no less of you.

Lewyn: Looks like we're too late, Seliph. The kids are already gone. I'm guessing they're well on their way to Grannvale.
Seliph: Blast... Not again...
Lewyn: I hate to admit it, but I doubt we could've gotten here soon enough either way. Now, then. It sounds like they're just finishing up repairs on the Miletos Strait bridge. Ready to move in on Chalphy?
Seliph: Chalphy... My father's homeland...
Lewyn: So it is. I'm betting the citizens there will be even happier to see you than usual. Let's not let them wait any longer!
Seliph: Indeed! Everyone, move out. Onward to Chalphy!

Julius: I grow weary of this game. Ishtar! We leave at once.
Ishtar: Yes, Lord Julius.

Arvis: Ah, Bishop Palmarch... Your Grace, I need you to escort these children to safety.
Palmarch: Come again?! Are you setting them free?
Arvis: Indeed. More of Julius' minions from Belhalla will be here at any moment. You need to move, and quickly!
Palmarch: Y-yes, of course! Thank you, Your Majesty... Thank you so much...
Arvis: I... I also wish to entrust you with this.
Palmarch: Hold on a moment... Isn't this-
Arvis: Once, long ago, you were a confidante to Sigurd, were you not? ...You already know what you must do.
Palmarch: Y-yes, sire...
Arvis: Now go! Protect the children with your life!
Julia: Father...
Arvis: Julia, I... I beg your forgiveness. For all the misery I've wrought, you must hate me so...
Julia: That's not true! It doesn't matter what happened, Father. Not even for a moment have I hated you! To me, you've always been one of the kindest men I've ever known!
Arvis: No... I am a fool. I've been a fool from the outset. All this time, I've been Manfroy's puppet. When I finally saw the strings he was pulling, it was too late. I was powerless to do a thing. I had already given the Empire to Julius... The embodiment of Loptous, the dark god. He... He took the love of my life from me... And you are next...
Julia: Mother sacrificed herself for me... She gave the last of her strength to ensure I made it as far away from Julius as possible. I think the trauma must have wiped my memory... And if Lewyn hadn't found me... But just knowing that Julius did that to his own mother... Now I remember, I almost wish I didn't... It hurts so much...
Arvis: Oh, Julia... We have so much more to talk about. I wish we could, but time is short. You are in grave danger so long as you stay here. Run. Run with Bishop Palmarch. Please...
Manfroy: Tsk tsk... I think not, Arvis. The only place Lady Julia is going is back with me to Velthomer. Now, I do believe His Imperial Majesty should keep to Prince Julius' orders. That is, unless you want your dear daughter to meet the axe.
Arvis: How dare you, Manfroy! You address your emperor! How dare you seek to use my daughter as a common bargaining chip!
Manfroy: Hmhmhm... So you still feebly cling to your titles and thrones, do you? Your time has long passed, Arvis. You, and this world, now belong to Prince Julius. Unless you wish to know pain beyond the ken of mortal men, still your tongue and obey your new liege without question. It is almost a pity your heroics are for naught. Every last child you freed shall be a festering corpse before this day is done! Hee hee hee...
Julia: F-Father!!
Arvis: Julia... I am so sorry... Julius' thugs are too powerful. I cannot protect you... All I can do now is give you this... This circlet once belonged to Deirdre. This... Only it could possibly save you n-
Manfroy: Enough! We leave at once, Julia!
Julia: Father! Oh...
Palmarch: Come along, children! Hurry!
Girl: But there's nowhere for us to go, sir...
Boy: The dark priests are right behind us! We're gonna die, aren't we?
Palmarch: Be at peace. All will be well. Lord Seliph will be here at any moment to rescue us. Have faith in the crusaders, my children!

@End 
Lewyn: A job well done indeed, Seliph. And would you just look at that! The locals are so happy to see you. Look! They're already pouring into the streets to rejoice at your return.
Seliph: Mm. I'm home. At long last, I'm home... Nothing has ever felt this good. But... I mustn't celebrate just yet...
Lewyn: Julia, right? You must be worried something fierce. Heh... Got a little thing for her, do you?
Seliph: Oh! Er... No, nothing of the sort...
Lewyn: I've had a word with some locals who've seen her. Archbishop Manfroy's got his grubby hands on her, by the sound of it. It's a pretty safe bet that Julia's still somewhere in Grannvale.
Seliph: Say, Lewyn... Something feels amiss. We've defeated Arvis and avenged my father, and yet I still feel... Empty.
Lewyn: That'd be because we still have a while to go until we reach the end of all this. If anything, the real battle here's only just about to get started. Trust me. By the time this holy war has come to a close, Seliph, the truth behind it all will be clear as day.

@Visit 
Woman: Ohh! Oh, noble crusader! We beg of you, save our children! The children... the dark priests want to sacrifice them to their god!

Man: Few folk livin' today are as vile as that Queen Hilda of Chronos. She's real cozy with them dark cultists. She goes 'round stealin' kids, then if they so much as cry, she kill the mams so calm-like, you'd think she was just swattin' flies! There's no way that woman's human! It's a fiend that's rulin' us now...

Old man: Long ago, the Twelve Crusaders waged holy war against the Loptous Empire for fifteen years. Nary a single corner of the land of Jugdral escaped the war's clutches. It was Saint Heim who smote the dark god's avatar, Emperor Galle XVII, restoring light to this land at long last. And yet... the dark god is upon us once more. Oh, great crusaders, protect us all!

Man: 'Tis only been lately that we've had t'deal with these rites of sacrifice. Not so long ago, from what I hear, Emperor Arvis himself forbade 'em entirely. What the devil could've changed his mind? Please, I'm beggin' you! You've gotta save our children! Here, this magic ring oughta help you out.

Young woman: A terrifying man, that Prince Julius is... Just a single glance into those eyes of his and you're gone... You lose yourself. So many of my friends and others my age've all left for Belhalla to serve him. I've heard nothing from any of 'em since...

Old man: None of yeh come even close t'being strong enough t'fight Prince Julius. Hate t'say it, but sometimes, yeh need t'make sacrifices if yeh wanna keep goin'...

@Battle-Talk 
%Lester,Patty
Lester: Hey! Hey, Patty! Looking good as ever, I see.
Patty: Oh. It's you, Lester. Look, just go away, okay?
Lester: Oh, come on! You're always so harsh and mouthy. What gives?
Patty: You're one to talk! You've never said anything that isn't teasing me in the most mind-numbing ways imaginable!
Lester: Wait, I haven't?
Patty: Of course you haven't! How can't you see that? You don't treat any other girls like this!
Lester: Hang on! What do you mean you're a girl, Patty?
Patty: Oh! You... You twit!
Lester: Hey, I was joking! I'm sorry... C'mon, calm down, okay? Look, I guess I kinda care about you. That sort of turned into... Er, sorry.
Patty: Care about me? What's that supposed to mean?!
Lester: It means that I sort of like you, okay! You can't be that thick, can you?

%Leif,Altena
Leif: Is everything alright, Altena? You look rather weary.
Altena: Oh, Leif... No, it's nothing. Don't worry about it.
Leif: Well, if you say so... Listen, Altena. Don't be afraid to ask for my help. If you ever need anything, I'll gladly do all I can.
Altena: Thanks, Leif. Er, actually... I was thinking of Arion.
Leif: I thought as much... Is it true that someone came to spirit him away after we brought him down?
Altena: It is, and from what I hear, that someone was Prince Julius...
Leif: The Empire's crown prince himself?! But why... Why in the world would he do that?
Altena: Perhaps he's trying to win himself a new ally by appealing to Arion.
Leif: That makes sense... And I suppose it means we'll be crossing blades with Thracia's wyvern knights again.
Altena: Mm. I'm afraid so. So long as this war continues...
Leif: To be honest, Altena, I believe this is actually good news.
Altena: Huh? How so?
Leif: Think about it. So long as Arion is still alive, there is still hope that we can help him. Never give up, Altena. So long as we keep moving forward, surely everything will be fine in the end.
Altena: Thank you, Leif... I think I'm feeling better already.
Leif: Oh, thank the gods. I couldn't bear knowing that my sister was in such grief. I'm here for you, Altena. All I want is to ensure your happiness, and I'll do whatever it takes to help you.

%Nanna,Leif
Nanna: Say, Lord Leif... All my life I've been hearing how Miletos' cities are so fabulously rich. But look at it now... Look at all these ruins...
Leif: Mm... No matter how awful the Empire is, I never thought them to be quite so brutal. To think, just two decades ago one could buy almost anything one could ever desire from this region's many merchants... I suppose that nothing can thrive, so long as the Empire remains in power.
Nanna: Ever since I was little I've always wanted to wander the beautiful cities of Miletos and sample all the rare goods on sale... It must have been so lovely once...
Leif: Nanna... The instant this war is over and we've restored peace to the world, let's come back here... Just the two of us.
Nanna: Why?
Leif: I once heard a story about my parents... On a visit to Miletos, my father gifted my mother with the most stunning pearl tiara.
Nanna: Did he?
Leif: He did indeed, and someday... Someday, I'd love to do the same for you, Nanna.
Nanna: Oh, Lord Leif...
Leif: Heh, I suppose I'm getting a bit ahead of myself. We still have an empire to bring down before we do anything else, after all! The end of this blasted war is in sight, Nanna. Now, shall we?
Nanna: Of course, Lord Leif!

%Shannan,Seliph
Shannan: You've grown so strong of late, Seliph! You really are your parents' son. There's nothing left for me to teach you.
Seliph: Thank you, Shannan... For everything. Any might I have springs from your teachings. To me, swordplay is every bit as natural as breathing, and I owe it all to you.
Shannan: Heh... You think so, do you...
Seliph: You look awfully weary, Shannan... Is something amiss? If only I could lend you my strength...
Shannan: Hey, come on! You needn't treat me like some old man. I'm as young and spry as ever, you know!
Seliph: Oh! My apologies, Shannan... That wasn't what I was-
Shannan: Heh, it's fine. ...Thanks anyway, Seliph. It heartens me to know that you care.

%Faval,Lana
Faval: Wait a minute... I’ve never seen someone so frail hold their own out here like this. Aren’t you scared at all?
Lana: I won’t lie to you... I am. I really am. But I could never sit back and do nothing knowing all those children are still in peril. 
Faval: Huh, so you’re fond of kids, then?
Lana: Oh, certainly! I love children. And from what I hear, you do as well! You’ve been looking after orphans, haven’t you, Faval? I think that’s just wonderful!
Faval: Er, don’t get too excited there... Patty dragged me into the whole “look after orphans” thing. Not the biggest fan myself.
Lana: Hee hee hee... You sound so sure! I’m not blind, you know. How, then, do you explain all the sobbing children who begged you to stay just as you left to join us? Why, they must all see you as some sort of father figure!
Faval: H-hey, stop it, will you? I... it’s just that... Look, I’ve got some things to go do, okay?
Lana: Heh! Oh, Faval... 

%Oifey,Seliph
Oifey: Look, sire! The territory of Chalphy awaits us just across the Miletos Strait.
Seliph: Chalphy... My father's fatherland... I can only imagine all the memories you must have of it, Oifey.
Oifey: Mm, of course. I don't think there's a single corner of Chalphy which I don't recall fondly... Lord Sigurd and Lady Ethlyn... Noish, Alec, and all of my other peers among the young knights of Chalphy... Every last face there was a friendly one...
Seliph: Hm... I can only imagine, Oifey. I've never so much as set foot in Chalphy, have I?
Oifey: Indeed, sire. You were born in Agustria, and raised in Silesse and Isaach. Come to think of it sire, you've never been anywhere near Grannvale till now.
Seliph: Quite the sorry excuse for a prince of Grannvale I make, wouldn't you say? It almost feels as if I've tricked the world.
Oifey: I know, sire, but I pray you understand. This is the will of your citizens, all long abused and stripped of power by the Empire. They've endured decades of suffering beyond compare at the Empire's hands, all in the hope of, one day, seeing the coming of their savior.
Seliph: This savior... Do they believe it to be me?
Oifey: They do. The common folk have long prayed for the second coming for the hero Sigurd. The folklore claims he comes once more in the form of a legendary child whom Sigurd begat with Empress Deirdre.
Seliph: A legendary child... It's terrifying to know that people have taken to seeing me as some sort of god, Oifey.
Oifey: Think of it as a product of the sheer brutality of the Empire's regime, sire. Look around you. We stand in a realm where children are snatched from their parents in droves, and all who resist are put to slaughter. No mere human could ever wreak such madness. A great evil lurks behind it all...
Seliph: Say, Oifey... I've been hearing tales that Emperor Arvis is the dark god itself. Where do you stand?
Oifey: I've heard the same from countless others in our travels, sire, but I doubt it.
Seliph: Then who could it be? Manfroy, perhaps?
Oifey: Sire... Whoever it may be, the dark god's return is fast approaching. We must hurry. Your people have come to revere you as a crusader destined to save them. The time to heed their call is upon us.

%Seliph,Fee
Seliph: Pardon me, Fee. Lewyn would like a word with you. If you need me, I'll be waiting over there.
Lewyn: Geez, Fee. I haven't seen anyone as stubborn as you since I last saw Erinys!
Fee: ...
Lewyn: C'mon, there's no need to get angry! I'm here to apologize, okay? Ignoring you clearly wasn't the best idea I've ever had.
Fee: What kind of monster are you, Dad?! I... I could've sworn I was seeing things when you first popped up in Rivough! I hadn't been that happy in years, and... And seeing you again had me in tears... But then when I tried talking to you, you wouldn't so much as blink at me! Do you have any idea how it feels to be shunned by your own father, Dad?!
Lewyn: So you went about pretending you didn't notice me either? Is that it?
Fee: I figured, why should I bother if you're not gonna bother? I told myself I'd only talk to you if you took the initiative here.
Lewyn: Heh... Bratty little thing, aren't you...
Fee: EXCUSE ME?! Ohh, that does it! I'm not listening to another word of this! Maybe if she hadn't married such an awful man, Mom'd still be with us...
Lewyn: Look, Fee. I get it. I really messed things up with Erinys. But what happened is my business and hers. Nobody else's. You and Ced have no right to meddle!
Fee: Dad-
Lewyn: There's a war going on here, Fee, and that's the only thing you should be worrying about right now. Understood?

%Seliph,Lene
Seliph: Pardon me, Lene. Lewyn would like a word with you. If you need me, I'll be waiting over there.
Lewyn: Take care of yourself out here, Lene. There’d be no greater tragedy for humanity than seeing your lovely face scarred, huh?
Lene: Say, Lewyn... I, er, don’t suppose you ever knew my mom?
Lewyn: Hm? What makes you say that?
Lene: I dunno. I guess it seems like you know just about everything, Lewyn. 
Lewyn: You want to know more about her, then?
Lene: Yep! And my dad too, if possible.
Lewyn: Lene... You’re your own wonderful person. You shouldn’t worry too much about who your parents were or what they were like. But I can tell you one thing: Your parents loved you so much, above all else... That will never change. As tragic as their parting with you was, they still watch over you... Even now. 
Lene: Y’know, I think you’re right. All my life, even when I was little, I’ve always felt like someone’s been watching over me... That has to be Dad... I just know it! But why... If he’s still alive like this, why won’t he come out to see me?! I’ve been waiting all my life for him... I’m... I’m so lonely without him... 
Lewyn: Lene... 

%Seliph,Tine
Seliph: Pardon me, Tine. Lewyn would like a word with you. If you need anything from me, I’ll be waiting over there.
Lewyn: Say, Tine. Hilda was your aunt, right? I can only imagine how painful having to fight her was...
Tine: No, not really. Lady Hilda is a horrific woman...
Lewyn: She didn’t treat you well, did she?
Tine: Mm... Day after day, again and again, she kept on beating and abusing us. And she kept on accusing Mother of being a traitor... 
Lewyn: Your mother... Tailtiu, right... 
Tine: Yes... After the Battle of Belhalla, she and my brother, Arthur, fled to Silesse. I was born there soon after. I never knew my father. I think he must’ve died long time ago... 
Lewyn: I see... Then you went to Alster, right?
Tine: King Blume and his minions came to Silesse one night... They dragged us away to Alster... Mother never left there alive... 
Lewyn: I... You’ve had such a hard life... 
Tine: Mm... Hilda hated Mother so much. I’ve never seen anything like it... Mother must’ve coped with so much, all to protect me from Hilda. She was always in tears, right till the end... 
Lewyn: She... She did?
Tine: Lord Lewyn? Is... Is everything okay, sir?
Lewyn: Yeah. Why d’you ask?
Tine: It’s your eyes, sir... Are those tears?
Lewyn: I... No, it’s... It’s nothing. This is just a bit of sweat. I’m fine... I... I’m okay... 

%Cairpre,Altena
Cairpre: Are you hurt at all, Your Highness?
Altena: Ah, Cairpre. Thank you, but everything's fine. Don't forget to take care of yourself as well. You shouldn't do anything too risky.
Cairpre: Er... Say, Your Highness...
Altena: Is something wrong, Cairpre?
Cairpre: Your Highness, I want to cast a Ward spell on you.
Altena: Oh, right. You're concerned about my low resistance to magic, aren't you? Are you sure? I've heard that few spells endanger the caster as much as Ward does. Look, Cairpre. I'm honored, but I don't want you risking yourself for my sake.
Cairpre: But you've always been there to help me, Your Highness. You're the closest thing I've ever had to a mama. Please, Your Highness! All I want is to do anything I can to help you!
Altena: Oh, Cairpre... Very well. I can hardly refuse if it's so important to you, now, can I? All I ask is that you stop casting the spell the instant it puts you at any risk at all. Promise me this, Cairpre.
Cairpre: Okay! It's a promise, Your Highness. Don't worry, I won't let myself get hurt.
Altena: Thank you, Cairpre. Now, shall we? I'm ready when you are.
Cairpre: Right, I'm ready! ...Hear me, O great Saint Bragi. ...I implore of you! Bestow upon this woman your exalted power...

%Seliph,Palmarch
Seliph: Are you unharmed, Your Grace?
Palmarch: Lord Seliph! Ohh, bless you! We've awaited you for so long. I've done all I can to survive, all to ensure you receive your birthright. Here... Take it, milord.
Seliph: W... what is this?
Palmarch: It is the sacred relic of House Chalphy. The divine blade... Tyrfing.
Seliph: But... How could you have it, Your Grace?
Palmarch: My apologies, milord, but I cannot say. I swore an oath...
Seliph: I see... Fair enough, then. I couldn't possibly thank you enough, Your Grace. So this is Tyrfing, then... I've never felt power quite like this...
Palmarch: Milord, I beg of you... Please, retake Chalphy at once! Your subjects have endured for so long, in hope of one day seeing your return...
Seliph: Rest easy now, Your Grace. So long as I have Tyrfing in hand, we have nothing more to fear!

@Dialogue
???: Seliph... Oh, Seliph...
Seliph: I-is somebody there?
???: Oh, Seliph... How you've grown...
Seliph: Could it be... M-Mother?! Mother! Is it truly you?
Deirdre: What a fine young man you've become... Bless Lewyn for all he's done to guide you this far... ...Seliph, never forget. Your friends... Your companions... You must always cherish them... You owe them so...
Seliph: ...Y-yes, Mother. I understand. Oh! I've defeated Emperor Arvis! At long last, Father has been avenged!
Deirdre: You did... But what of Julius and Julia...?
Seliph: I still don't know... Wait! Mother, how could you know of what happened to them?
Deirdre: ...
Seliph: ...Mother?
Sigurd: Seliph.
Seliph: Who's there? Wait... Is... Is it you, Father?!
Sigurd: Listen, Seliph. You must stay humble, no matter what. Remember, your power alone was not what put an end to Arvis...
Seliph: What? How do you mean, Father?
Sigurd: You must learn the sorrow of the common man, Seliph, Your truth is not the reality of all. Unless you know their pain, these long years of war will have been for naught...
Seliph: F-Father! Come back... Please!
Deirdre: Seliph... Take care, my son...
Seliph: Oh... Mother...

@Battle 
Girl: You're the liberation army? Wow... You're all amazing!

Boy: Whoa, the liberators! You're the best!

Boy: Wait, you're a crusader? Really? Huh...

Girl: Ohh! You're a crusader... I was really scared there...

Boy: Huh? You're with the liberators?! Wow! You came for us after all!

Girl: Thank you for rescuing me! Thank you!

@Boss 
Hilda: Monsters! You murdered my father-in-law, my husband, and my son... Know their vengeance!

%Tine,Hilda
Hilda: Ohoho! Well, if it isn't Tine! I knew you'd come crawling back to me. You really are every bit the ingrate your dear mama was!
Tine: Hilda! You... What you did to Mother...
Hilda: Ahh, that takes me back! It's been so long since I've had as much fun as tormenting that eyesore you call "mama"... Ahahaha!
Tine: No! You... I won't forgive you...
Hilda: Why, if I didn't know better, I'd say that's the smart mouth of someone all grown up! What could a brat like you ever hope to do? Good thing you miss your mama. You're about to go join her in hell!

@Boss 
Hilda: Gah... This can't be happening! I can't stay here... I must retreat...

Morrigan: Behold. In your final moments, you will cower in fear of my dark sorcery!

Morrigan: Your Excellency... I beg your forgiveness...

Riddell: Thank you, rebels. It's been far too long since I've seen an honest battle!

Riddell: Nngh... So this is how the gods will my fate...

Zagam: Heh heh... You've been cursed with such a poor fate...

Zagam: Archbishop Manfroy... Please... forgive me...

Ishtar: It seems as if this game shall be mine, Lord Julius!

Ishtar: Nng! Why...

Julius: You've lost, have you? Hmph... We leave at once!

Julius: Hmhmhm... Look, Ishtar. Victory is mine!

Julius: I grow weary of this silly game.

Arvis: You poor wretches. You cannot even imagine the hell I'll visit upon you!

Arvis: Deirdre... ...Julia...

%Seliph,Arvis
Seliph: You... Emperor Arvis! Why... Why did you betray my father...
Arvis: At long last... Seliph. I must commend your courage, boy. But courage cannot save you now. Not since your dear departed father have I seen such a pathetic worm... My flames shall purge you from this world!
/***EOF***/
@Opening
Sigurd's capture of Evans Castle comes too late. Aideen is not there, instead already well within Verdane's borders. 

Verdane's territory is blanketed in a thick sweep of forest. The nation is widely dubbed a "barbarian kingdom" by Grannvale's people, owing to their constant raids on Grannvalian soil. 

However, the reign of King Batur has seen an end to Verdane's infamous border raids. A pacifist, King Batur has long worked to build a lasting peace with Grannvale, while also keeping his aggressive sons appeased. Ultimately, however, it was Batur himself who violated the peace he held so dear. 

Batur's three sons have unexpectedly launched an assault on Grannvale. Kinbois, the second son, lord of Genoa... Gandolf, the eldest, lord of Marpha... And Jamke, the youngest of the three. Lurking deep within Verdane territory, the three now await the arrival of Sigurd. 

Aideen's fate... Batur's sudden belligerence... Sprawling before Sigurd lie the great forests of Verdane - and within them, the answers he seeks. He prepares to take his first steps into the spirit forest of folklore...

@Intro 
Eldigan: You're doing a fine job, soldier. I leave the border's defenses to you.
Cavalier: Yes, milord!

Eldigan: Sigurd! It's been a long time. Pray tell, why do I find you suddenly occupying Evans? You couldn't possibly be declaring war on Verdane, could you?
Sigurd: Eldigan! Am I glad to see you. Listen. The Verdanites have abducted Lady Aideen of Jungby. They've made it amply clear that they don't plan on releasing her. Taking her back by force is our only option.
Eldigan: Ah, I see. That makes sense. Well, whatever you do, you cannot afford to leave Evans unattended. My fellow Agustrian lords have been of a rancorous sort of late... Ah, I know. I'll ensure they don't threaten you from behind.
Sigurd: I'm sorry to involve you in this as well. Say, Eldigan, once I'm done here, what do you say to a catch up? You, me, a fine bottle of wine... Just like old times.
Eldigan: Mm. I'm looking forward to it. I trust I'll see you later, then. May luck be with you this day, Sigurd!

Kinbois: Listen up, Ayra! You know the deal. While I'm out, you guard the palace, right up to your very last breath. Remember, first sign of funny business, and it's the brat's head.
Shannan: Ayra! Ayra, I'll be alright! Don't give in to these thugs! Don't let 'em boss you around!
Ayra: Shannan... Look, Kinbois, you have my word. So long as you leave Shannan alone, you'll have no trouble. But I do wonder if, once this battle is over, you actually plan to return him to me.
Kinbois: Ahahahaha! You got nothing to worry about. If we get Evans back, you get him back.
Ayra: I understand. But be warned, Kinbois: if you break your promise, you'll deeply regret it. Cross me, and I will pursue you to the very depths of the inferno itself, till I take your head. Remember this well!
Kinbois: Wh-whoa, settle down there! I don't believe it... Such a cute face, but you only use it to spew bile like that! I'm not about to make an enemy outta someone with a sword arm as fine as yours. I can promise you that.
Ayra: Shannan, sit tight. Be patient for just a bit longer.
Shannan: Ayra, no! Don't do it! Don't go! AYRA!!
Kinbois: Feh... Right, boys, we're moving out! We're taking back Evans!

@Battle 
Jamke: Come on, Aideen! Take the brat and get out of here, and quickly! You need to get as far away as you can before Gandolf finds out!
Aideen: Pardon me, Prince Jamke, but are you not joining us?
Jamke: No. I won't stand for my brothers' vile ways but I just won't betray my father, either. I'm going back to the capital. I'm going to try, one more time, to convince my father.
Aideen: You're right... We must do all we can to end this war as soon as possible. Prince Jamke, I would sooner not burden you alone, but you are our only hope to persuade King Batur to end this.
Dew: Aideeeeeeen! C'mon, hurry up! We're still in serious danger here. If they catch me this time, then Gandolf'll rip my tongue out for sure!
Jamke: Dew, you're a thief. You got caught in the act. Any tongue rippings you get are your own fault. If Aideen hadn't insisted on letting you go too, you'd still be sitting in chains. Now, what did you promise to do?
Dew: I know, I know. I promised Aideen, too. I'm washin' my hands of thievin' from now on. Can I go now?
Jamke: I'll take your word for it. Now, go already!
Jamke: Aideen... May we meet again.

Gandolf: What?! Jamke let the broad go and went scurrying back to the capital? Gah! Damn my rat of a brother! Boys! We'er taking the wench and the brat back! If they put up a fight, kill 'em if you have to!

Gandolf: Oi, oi, oi! What do you lot think you’re doing out there!? The rest of you, get out there and fight! Now! Don’t let them touch the castle! 

Ayra: So it's finally time... Woe be to all who cross me!

^start
Oifey: Sire, we've found this young boy in the dungeon.
Shannan: ...
Sigurd: What's the matter? Why are silent? I want to know why you were held here.
Shannan: You're not one of Kinbois lot... Are you?
Sigurd: We've dealt with Kinbois. There's nothing to be afraid of anymore...
Shannan: Oh! So Ayra doesn't have to keep fighting! My Auntie Ayra was forced to fight 'cause Kinbois had me! Please! You've got to help her!
Sigurd: That swordswoman? Huh. I thought there was something amiss about her... Very well! I'll let her know that you're safe. Now, what's your name?
Shannan: Shannan. ...I'm Shannan, the prince of Isaach...
Sigurd: Isaach's prince, you say... I can barely begin to imagine what you've been through, Shannan. For now, though, you're welcome to stay with our army. Don't worry. One day, you'll make it home. I'll do all I can to ensure that.

Oifey: Sire, we've found this young boy in the dungeon.
Sigurd: Who are you? What's your name?
Shannan: I-I'm Shannan... Prince Shannan of Isaach... You're not one of Kinbois's lot... Are you?
Sigurd: Isaach's prince?! ...Er, forgive me. I am Sigurd, a paladin of Grannvale. We've defeated Prince Kinbois. You're safe now.
Shannan: Really?! Then Ayra doesn’t have to fight anymore! My Aunt Ayra was forced to fight ‘cause Kinbois had me! Come on, we gotta tell her!
Sigurd: Ayra? That swordswoman out there? ...Oh. Oh no...
Shannan: It... It can't be... She's dead? ...You killed Aunt Ayra?!
Sigurd: I'm so sorry, Shannan... If I had known, I would’ve done all I could to help her...
Shannan: Ayra...
Sigurd: Oifey, could you take care of Shannan for a while? Try to help him calm down a bit.
^end 

Oifey: Pardon me, sire, but we're currently at war with Isaach. If we're going to harbor its prince, shouldn't we inform the king?
Sigurd: He's a child, Oifey. That war has nothing to do with him. I'll find a way to get him home safely, but for now, we need to look after him.
Oifey: Understood, sire.
Oifey: Just as I thought... Lord Sigurd really is such a kind man...

Ayra: Genoa has fallen to Grannvale?! No! I... I must get to Shannan!

Elliot: Tch. Does Grannvale really think it can just waltz into Verdane with such a tiny force? How adorable. Men, here's our chance. Evans is ripe for the plucking, then it's straight for the Grannvale border!
Cavalier: Is that... No! That's the Heirhein army! Lord Eldigan won't like this...

Ayra: Shannan isn’t here!? No... The Grannvalians must have him. Those fiends...They won’t live to regret it!

Eldigan: What's this? Heirhein's army is marching on Evans?! Ugh... I should've known Elliot just couldn't keep his nose out of this. Take care of the castle, Lachesis. Sigurd is in dire need of my help.
Lachesis: Of course, brother. Please, do all you can to help Sir Sigurd.
Eldigan: Right! Cross Knights, move out! Our foe is the Heirhein army. I don't expect a challenge, but stay alert nonetheless!
Eldigan: Elliot! Ambushing them like a common thief, are you? A cowardly act, ill befitting the honor of a knight! Withdraw immediately, or I will take action. We both know you're no match for me.
Elliot: What's this? Eldigan?! I should've known you would side with Grannvale!
Eldigan: In doing this you are crossing not just Grannvale, nor me, but your very liege! We bow to the reverent King Imca, who desires only peace with Grannvale. Would you truly cross His Majesty?
Elliot: You fool! Only you would still seriously heed that senile old fool's word. The lords of Agustria are united against both Grannvale and any peace with them!
Eldigan: Wrong, for I will not stand with you! Agustria cannot afford the crippling tolls of war, and nor can Grannvale. Our past stands as a testament to this. Learn well, Elliot: we, the nobility, know not the suffering brought by war. War cripples only the powerless, our subjects. I will not abide your lust for glory at the expense of our people!
Elliot: A pretty little speech, but that won't save you now. I knew all along: you and I were always fated to clash, Eldigan! Today, we settle this, once and for all! Men, the enemy is now House Nordion! I want Eldigan's head on a platter!

Eldigan: Elliot has fled? Very well. Leave him to lick his wounds. We're done here. Withdraw!

Deirdre: N-no! Please, let go of me!
Ruffian: Heh heh... What's the matter? C'mon, I'm just askin' for a little date.
Deirdre: I need to go home, sir. I ask of you, please, pay me no mind!
Ruffian: Shaddup! Keep up your yappin' and you'll regret it!
Sigurd: What's going on here? Let the girl go.
Ruffian: What's your problem!? This ones- ...Urgh! You're not that Grannvale paladin, are you?
Sigurd: You understand the situation? Then be on your way. There are none I loath more than your kind. The girl has given you her answer. Now, leave her be and get out of my sight!
Ruffian: Yeah... Yeah, got it... My bad, missy. I was just teasin', is all. Sorry. I'll be off now...
Sigurd: Are you alright?
Deirdre: Y-yes... Thank you, Sir Sigurd.
Sigurd: Hm? You know of me?
Deirdre: Yes. I met a woman named Aideen not long ago in this castle, and...
Sigurd: She spoke of me.
Deirdre: She did. I knew from the moment I laid eyes on you: You are in every way the man I had imagined...
Sigurd: May I... ask for your name?
Deirdre: ...I'm sorry, but... ...I... I must go.
Sigurd: Wait! Please, I just want to talk for a little longer--
Deirdre: ...I am truly sorry. I am glad we could meet, even once...
Sigurd: What? What do you mean? Please, wait! ...Ah.
Old man: Lord Sigurd, is it? What's the matter?
Sigurd: Oh... You must be the town elder! That woman who ran off just now... Do you know who she is?
Old man: Ahh, of course. That woman is called Deirdre. She is a priestess of the Spirit Forest.
Sigurd: Deirdre... She's beautiful...
Old man: Ohoho, even a refined man like you can't resist being charmed by her ilk! Could it be love at first sight? Hoho...
Sigurd: Sir, please. Don't tease me. And yet... I've never seen anybody so beautiful before. I... I need to see her again.
Old man: Alas, sir, for it cannot be so. The folk of the Spirit Forest staunchly refuse to partake in the world beyond their woods. Furthermore, that girl and members of her clan are forbidden from ever liaising with men. Village lore dictates that should this ever happen, calamity would befall the world. You have no choice, sir. Resign yourself of that girl.
Sigurd: What superstitious nonsense! That poor girl... Deirdre... we must meet again.

Lex: Ugh, dammit! I dropped my axe!
Woman: What you dropped... Was it this golden axe? Or perhaps, this silver axe?
Lex: Oh, no. My axe isn't anything as fine as those two. It's just a plain old iron axe.
Woman: Such an honest person... As a reward... I present you with this brave axe... Farewell, Lord Lex...
Lex: Er...

Jamke: Father, this is absurd! Why do you still refuse to listen to me? My brothers already have fallen, and it's only a matter of time before they come for the capital as well. The Grannvale commander, Sir Sigurd, is a good man. Please, end the war while you still can!
Batur: I... allowed Gandolf's raid only because I'd been told that Grannvale would surely come to invade us first. Never did I intend for a war like this.
Jamke: It was that sorcerer, Sandima, who told you that, wasn't it? You, Kinbois, and Gandolf trusted him too readily. You've all been deceived!
Sandima: Now, now, Prince Jamke. That's enough of that. Your duty as prince is to lead your men into the fray. Dawdling in a place like this would be deeply troublesome of you.
Jamke: Argh! Damn you, Sandima!
Batur: That's enough, Jamke. Listen to Sandima. Go. Lead your men into the fray.
Jamke: Father! ...Very well. If you won't change your mind, even now, then... I'll see this through as well. But be warned. Should I return victorious, Sandima, I'll allow you to live no longer!
Batur: Sandima... Perhaps, for all this time, you may not have been entirely forthright with me. You did assure me that Grannvale hungers to claim our land, and yet...
Sandima: Feh... And just what are you saying now? To think, I believed that your Verdanites would be of use... You truly are naught but savages. You are worthless. Completely and utterly worthless! And from now on, your army is mine to command!
Batur: What?! No, stay back! Back, I- -Guhh...
Sandima: Feh... Feeble-minded old fool.
Manfroy: So, you've put an end to the king, Sandima... Do you expect that the Verdanite army will still obey your command?
Sandima: Oh, Archbishop Manfroy! How long have you been here, Your Eminence? The army is of no concern at all. They need only know that the king has fallen ill.
Manfroy: Hrm, I see... And what of the situation here? Does the plan progress?
Sandima: My sincerest apologies, Your Excellency. That Grannvalian... Sigurd, or something, has proven to be an unexpected obstacle to the invasion.
Manfroy: Hrm... And what of the search for the Loptrian scion? Have you found Sigyn's daughter?
Sandima: Er... No, not yet...
Manfroy: Imbecile! After all of the pains I have gone to, to locate the boy... The son of Sigyn is still in Belhalla, but he's worthless without the female. Listen well. Sigyn was an heir of Prince Maira, brother of an emperor of the old Loptyr Empire. Sigyn alone in this era inherited the sacred blood of the dark lord. That woman broke the commandment that Maira placed upon his heirs and bore two children. Do you know what this means?
Sandima: Yes, Your Eminence. When the blood of the two heir intersects, the second coming of the dark lord, Loptyr, will be upon us.
Manfroy: Precisely, and so too shall we, descendants of the Loptyr Empire, return to this world. You know as well as I, Sandima, how heavily our fates depend upon the resurrection of the dark lord. You know well our order's centuries of exile, hidden deep within the Aed Desert. You know well the abuses... The famines... How we were sustained only by dreaming of the day when the Empire will rise again. And at long last, that day is upon us.
Sandima: Understood, Your Eminence. If I must surrender my life to ensure that the plan is realized, I will do it gladly!

Deirdre: Wait... Lord Sigurd...
Sigurd: Hm? Is that... Deirdre! Ah! So this must be your Spirit Forest. Thank the gods! For a moment I thought that I might never see you again.
^start
Deirdre: Milord, listen. The dark priest Sandima guards Castle Verdane with his wicked magic. You must go no further. You would surely be killed. Please, you mustn't go...
Sigurd: But I mustn't place my men in even greater danger, either. I have no choice but to go.
Deirdre: ...I see. Then I will go with you.
Sigurd: Excuse me?
Deirdre: This is called a Silence staff. So long as my own power is enough to pierce his magical resistances, it will seal his magic away. Trust me, milord. I'll ensure his dark spells never harm anyone ever again.
Sigurd: I'd never imagined that you'd have such power... But why... Why are you helping me?
Deirdre: ...I tried to forget you all I could, but it was all in vain. ...I no longer know what I should do...
Sigurd: What is it you're afraid of, Deirdre? I don't understand. But if you and I feel the same way, then surely we've nothing to fear. I... I love you, Deirdre...

Deirdre: I heard of Sandima's defeat. I was afraid that he'd find me... He was a dark priest from a shadowy cult, sent to Verdane to find me.
Sigurd: A... shadowy cult? What in the world do you mean?
Deirdre: I don't know much of it myself. All I know comes from the last words of the old woman who raised me. Somewhere in this world, she said, there lies an ancient order dedicated to the ancient dark god, Loptyr. So devout are they, it is said that they plot to resurrect their once-fallen god.
Sigurd: Yes, I've heard those rumors myself. But why is this cult after you?
Deirdre: The dark god slumbers within my very blood... Through me, they have some way of reviving Loptous. This is why she told me on her deathbed: I must never be found, she said. I must never mingle with men...
Sigurd: I see... So that's why you kept running away from me.
Deirdre: I was afraid of falling in love. I did all I could to forget you, but... Love found me still. I couldn't do it... I couldn't bear to lose you. I... no longer know what I should do...
Sigurd: Deirdre... I know you must fear where your destiny might lead. But nothing will come of living in fear. I will protect you. Come what may, I will protect you. Deirdre, if you and I feel the same way, then we've nothing to fear. O gods above, should our love be a sin, then deliver punishment unto me alone! I swear this day: Even should my body be rendered and rent, no regrets will ever haunt me. All I ask, O gods... Protect my beloved Deirdre in my stead, for all eternity!
Deirdre: Ahh... Milord...
^end

@End 
Sigurd: Deirdre?! Oh, thank the gods! You’re alright!
Deirdre: Mm. The enemy captured and imprisoned me, but I knew... I knew you would come for me, no matter what. 

Oifey: Sire, we've found a casualty in the palace. It's... it's King Batur himself. By the look of it, he's well beyond help.
Sigurd: King Batur! Are you alright? Please, come on... you can make it!
Batur: Hnnh... Lord... Sigurd? I am so sorry for doing all this to you... I let Sandima... lead me astray... He... he abused my trust... and won over my sons... all to seize control of Verdane for himself...
Sigurd: I understand, Your Highness, but you need to rest now. Please, you mustn't stress yourself further.
Batur: No... It's too late for me... Heed my word, Sigurd, for there is one final thing I must tell you... The misery here... the grief spreading across Jugdral... it is all the will of the dark priesthood... They blight our world from the shadows, all in the name of the revival of their dark god, Loptyr... Sandima... was one of them... He twisted us to war with Grannvale... for the sake of the cult's madness. The... the dark priests... they infect every corner of our world... Sigurd... Stay vigilant, lest you be tricked too! I... I failed the people of Verdane... Sigurd, I beg you... Make this right... Protect... my... people...
Sigurd: Oh... Your Highness... The dark priesthood? What in the blazes is happening...?

@Visit 
Woman: This village is part of the holdings of Prince Kinbois, lord of Genoa. He's as dreadful as they come! Barely a month goes by without him settin' his army on us. It's terrifyin'! King Batur, his father, used to do such a fine job of keepin' him in check. I can hardly imagine what's goin' on... Anyway, glad you stopped by!

Woman: King Batur is as gentle as they come. Normally, at least, leading a war like this is the last thing he'd ever do. Mark my words: this is all the doing of Sandima, his sorcerous advisor. I can just feel it. Eking out a living here's grown tougher and tougher since the day that man arrived, and save for the youngest son, Jamke, both king and country are at his very whim. Please, I beg you... Save our country! Bring back the Verdane that once was!

Old man: Just t'the north a here is this mighty woodland. S'called the Spirit Forest. Once upon a time, I lived there too, in this li'l hamlet deep within. Th' village is home to the last kin o' the dark one of old, Loptyr. They say it all started with Saint Maira, exiled by the empire for darin' to sympathize with mortal men. In my day, there was this gorgeous girl livin' there called Sigyn, the last heir o' Loptyr's bloodline, she was. She lived 'er life under close guard, the villagers wary o' lettin' the blood o' Loptyr loose into th' world. Alas, Sigyn grew weary o' the tedious forest life an' she left it all behind, breaking ancient commandments. A couple o' years later, she came back, 'cept now she was pregnant. Never said who the father was, mind. Before long Sigyn died, even as she gave birth t' her daughter. From what I 'eard, the hamlet's old prophet took 'er in and raised the girl as 'er own. If the little girl's still alive, she'd 'ave to be 'bout seventeen or eighteen by now...

@Battle-Talk 
%Quan,Finn 
Quan: Finn, this will likely be a very long battle. My apologies for bringing you into it.
Finn: I am but your humble servant, milord. I would go anywhere, should my master will it.
Quan: Thank you, Finn.
Finn: Even so, I am but a page... It honors me to have your confidence, but I doubt I'll be of much use to you.
Quan: Is that so? In that case, what better time than now is there for a spot of hands-on training? Draw, Finn!
Finn: Yes, sir!

%Sigurd,Aideen
Sigurd: Aideen? Thank goodness you're okay!
Aideen: Lord Sigurd! So you came to my aid, did you? Please accept my apologies. I've put the people of Chalphy through nothing but danger...
Sigurd: Don't worry about it. Everyone will be glad to know that you're safe. You've nothing to worry about anymore. The road back to Jungby is secure for you, when you're ready.
Aideen: No, I wish to remain here. Injuries are inevitable in war. As a humble servant to the gods, it is my duty to stay here and aid your wounded.
Sigurd: Say, Aideen... As I recall, you declined to pursue a knighthood and instead joined the clergy. Am I right? I shouldn't be surprised, knowing how easily people warm to you, and you them. I'd do well to learn from your example!
Aideen: Thank you, Lord Sigurd, but that isn't entirely true. Initially, I sought priesthood in a bid to help me find my sister. Even now, I still believe this is the answer I seek.
Sigurd: You mean Bridget... I'd heard that she went missing as a child. So all this time, Aideen, you've been praying for her sake, haven't you?
Aideen: Yes. I know we'll meet someday. No matter what happens, I must give her this: her sacred birthright, the bow Yewfelle!

%Azelle,Aideen
Azelle: Ah, Lady Aideen! You're safe... thank the gods...
Aideen: Lord Azelle? Have you been fighting for Jungby as well?
Azelle: When the news of your abduction reached us, the thought of you in danger while I just sat at home was unbearable! I came to Jungby as quickly as I could.
Aideen: Hold on. You are the younger brother of Lord Arvis of Velthomer, are you not? Did he allow you to come?
Azelle: No, I... I came without his consent. And he certainly won't be pleased.
Aideen: Why would you do something so reckless, then? I thought you abhorred violence.
Azelle: Because I... er, well...
Aideen: Oh? What is it, Azelle?
Azelle: It's... It's nothing... never mind.

%Midir,Aideen
Midir: Milady? You... you're safe! Ahh... thank the gods! I'm so sorry I failed to protect you. Please, forgive me...
Aideen: The important part is that you're safe as well, Midir. Please, don't worry about it. You gave your all to protect me, and I couldn't thank you enough for that, even if you didn't succeed. For now I'd like you to remain with Sigurd. He could use your strength.
Midir: Certainly, milady. He's done so much for me, for you, and for all of Jungby. I'll do all I can to return his kindness.

%Aideen,Ethlyn
Ethlyn: Aideen, are you okay? When I heard you'd been abducted, I was so worried!
Aideen: You came to fight for me as well, Ethlyn? Thank you... I'm sorry for your trouble. It's difficult to convey my thanks, but please, accept this staff. I think you'll have more use for it than me.
Ethlyn: Is this... a Return staff?! Oh, thank you, Aideen! I'll put it to good use to help us all.

%Dew,Aideen
Dew: Hey! Miss Aideen! I got something good to give you. Look, I picked up this odd cane. It won't do much good if I just hold onto it, will it?
Aideen: Oh? This is a Warp staff. Where did you find it, Dew?
Dew: Oh... er... I... I found it just over there! Yeah! That's right. Weird, isn't it? I betcha one of the gods left it over there. Juuuuust for you!
Aideen: Oh, Dew... Having a staff like this ought to be a great help for everybody. Thank you. I'll cherish it.

%Ayra,Quan
Quan: Princess Ayra of Isaach, I presume? I heard your story from Sigurd. I am Quan of Leonster.
Ayra: A pleasure.
Quan: I'd hate to press you for information so soon, but there's something I'd like to know. Why did Isaach attack Darna in the first place? Surely you knew doing so would invoke the wrath of Grannvale. That King Mananan would commit such a reckless act... The very idea defies belief.
Ayra: You knew my father, Sir Quan?!
Quan: I'm afraid I never had the chance to meet him. However, my father knows him well. He always had only the utmost praise for him. He also speaks fondly of your brother, Prince Mariccle. He's always said he is a fine young man.
Ayra: Is that so? It heartens me to hear it. Without a doubt, my father and Mariccle were admirable men. Never would they condone such an assault on a defenseless city. In the matter of Darna, the patriarch of Rivough acted alone and without our consent...
Quan: I beg your pardon?! Why haven't the Grannvalians heard this? Surely if Prince Kurth knew the truth, he would refuse to continue the war.
Ayra: So, too, thought my father. Once he executed the Rivough patriarch, he departed for the Grannvale front, head in tow, to negotiate with them. But...
Quan: ...Yes?
Ayra: My father, the king... He was assassinated on the way. Once word of this returned to Isaach, the people were utterly incensed. Mariccle set out, leading our entire army, seeking vengeance against Grannvale.
Quan: Something is amiss here. The murder of a king who seeks peace talks certainly isn't like Prince Kurth, either. Have you told Sigurd of this as well?
Ayra: No. Lord Sigurd carries enough of a burden as it is. It's too late for my brother...
Quan: Prince Mariccle was resigned to his death when he engaged Grannvale, wasn't he...
Ayra: My brother believed to the last that Isaach's hope for the future rests in Shannan, his son. My role is to protect Shannan, and with him, the promise of Isaach's liberty...
Quan: I see. Thank you for telling me, Princess Ayra. Someday, the world will know this truth, and till that day comes, you mustn't give in. I will do all I can to help you.
Ayra: Thank you, Sir Quan.

@Recruit-Talk 
%Sigurd,Ayra
Sigurd: Hold, Lady Ayra! Prince Shannan is safe with us! You needn't keep fighting.
Ayra: What? You saved Shannan? Do you speak the truth?!
Sigurd: I do. Prince Shannan told me everything: that you're the daughter of the late Isaachian king. Listen. You detest Grannvalians. You've made your hostility perfectly clear. But you can't neglect your duty to the prince. You can't afford to waste your life now, not on a battle as senseless as this.
Ayra: My brother, the crown prince, entrusted Shannan to my care knowing that his death was inevitable. You're right. After all this time, I refuse to die for Verdane's sake. Until I've seen Shannan rise to the Isaachian throne, my life is not mine to forfeit to such dogs.
Sigurd: I will aid you all I can, if you lower your sword. On my honor as the heir of Baldr the Crusader, I swear I will not betray you.
Ayra: Very well. I'll place my trust in you, as well... Such is the way of the warriors of Isaach. For now, I pledge my blade in your service. However, this does not change that Grannvale is my foe. Beware, for if one day that includes you... I will not hesitate.
Sigurd: Mm, war can be truly cruel. Ayra, Isaachian warrior... I pray that day never comes.

%Aideen,Jamke
Aideen: Hold, Prince Jamke!
Jamke: Aideen!? What are you doing here?
Aideen: You said you would persuade your father, yet instead you've taken to the field yourself. What is the matter with you?
Jamke: My father is a changed man. My words can no longer reach him... ...It all started when that sorcerer, Sandima, arrived. My entire family now obeys his every word.
Aideen: This is why I ask... Why have you taken to the field? Please, Jamke. Join us. Let's go to Verdane together. We can reason with the king, one more time. We can put an end to this war! Lord Sigurd has no interest in invading Verdane. He fought only to rescue me. Please listen, Jamke. Please... I beg of you.
Jamke: Fine... If you're willing to go so far, then I'll stain my name with treason. But it must be understood that I won't let anyone lay a finger on my father.
Aideen: Yes, I will promise you that. Thank you, Jamke. You truly are a good person.
Jamke: Aideen...

@Boss 
Kinbois: Pointing your little stick at me? That's precious, that is! I'll cave your head right in!

Kinbois: No... urgh...

Gandolf: Oh, come on! First my woman flees, and now this?! Damn my rotten luck!

%Azelle,Gandolf
Gandolf: And what are you supposed to be? You've got nerve, brat!
Azelle: So you're Gandolf... How dare you harm Aideen!

%Midir,Gandolf
Gandolf: You're that knight from earlier?! Ugh, I don't believe this... What are you doing still alive?
Midir: Prepare yourself, Gandolf? I'll never forgive you!

@Boss
Gandolf: N-no... This can't be... Guh...

Sandima: Kehehehehe... Learn to fear my dark magic.

Sandima: Archbishop Manfroy... F-forgive me...

Elliot: Damn you, Eldigan, and your little good-guy act! Your grudge against me ends, here and now!

Elliot: Oof... Men, retreat! Mark my words, Eldigan! This isn't over!

%Jamke,Sandima
Sandima: You are too late, Jamke. Your father has already passed on.
Jamke: What?! Sandima! You... You're MINE!!

%Deirdre,Sandima
Sandima: What's this? A priestess, are you? Could it be... Might you be Deirdre... The cursed maiden...

@Recruit-Battle 
Ayra: You stand between me and Shannan's future... Farewell!

Ayra: Shannan... I've failed you...

Jamke: I don't want to hurt you! Begone from this land at once!

Jamke: No... Father...
/***EOF***/
@Opening 
The Silessian civil war is over, and the Grannvale army awaits Sigurd. Zaxon Castle has barely fallen, yet before Sigurd can so much as rest, the hordes of Grannvale stand before him at the captured Lubeck Castle. 

The Grannvale commander, Duke Langbalt, is a longtime enemy of Sigurd's father. For Sigurd, to challenge Langbalt is an opportunity to avenge his father, Byron, framed by Langbalt for his crimes. 

Beyond Lubeck, in the desert town Phinora, Lord Arvis's elite warriors stand guard under the command of the war-mage Vaha. Velthomer Castle, on Grannvale's border with the Aed Desert, is defended by Lord Arvis' trusted aide, General Aida. And in Belhalla, the royal capital of Grannvale, Lord Arvis serves to aid the bedridden King Azmur, while Chancellor Reptor of Friege maintains peace and order in the city. 

A long road to Belhalla awaits Sigurd... A clash with Grannvale en route is inevitable. Sigurd refuses to endanger the people of Silesse any further in this conflict. He is determined to fight to the end. 

The year is Grann 760, early spring. The fields of Silesse peacefully rest beneath a deep blanket of snow...

@Intro 
Byron: Nngh... Sigurd... ...No, I mustn't die yet... No... Not until the exalted blade is in your hands...

Slayder: Milord, we've sighted the fugitive Duke Byron. We caught him resting, but he slipped away. It seems as if he plans to escape to Silesse.
Langbalt: What?! You simpleton! Get out there and hunt him down, immediately! My ambush may have put an end to Chalphy's paladin brigade, the Grünritter, but the survival of Byron alone leaves that utterly meaningless!
Slayder: Y-yes, sir... But you see, milord, Byron is still gravely wounded. Surely, he has very little time left...
Langbalt: I've never heard such naïve drivel! Byron may not be long for this world, but he's determined to get that sword, Tyrfing, to his son with the very last of his strength. Do you not understand the threat that Sigurd would pose to us, should he get his hands on that damnable sword? Move out and kill Byron, immediately!
Slayder: Y-yes, sir! Consider it done!
Langbalt: For that matter, where in blazes is Danan with those reinforcements?! For the gods' sake, he's leading the elite Grau Ritter brigade! How could it take him so long to put down that Isaachian resistance?! First Lex, and now Danan... Why must both of my sons be so worthless?!
André: Come now, Lord Langbalt, sir! Don't worry about a thing. After all, you've still got the Beige Ritter and I on your side.
Langbalt: I suppose you're right, André. Be sure that your men are ready to join the fray at a moment's notice.
André: Heh. It would be my pleasure, sir...
Langbalt: Damn that insolent worm. To think he isn't even the slightest bit remorseful for slaying his own father! Duke Ring... May you be at peace...

Oifey: Sire! We've sighted a lone knight to our east, who appears to be headed our way.
Sigurd: Hm? Is he an enemy?
Oifey: I don't believe so. The Lubeck occupation seems to be pursuing him, so they're most likely not with them.
Sigurd: I see. Let's give them a hand. We'll be clashing with Langbalt's army sooner or later, so why not make the first move? Move out! Our target is their front lines. Today's victory hinges on this first strike!

@Battle 
Arden: Heh, who knew? Even I’ve got myself a wife and kids! Certainly can’t go dying now, not without leaving anything behind for them... Hm? What’s this tatty little book doing here? That’s odd... Nothing in this thing but complete gibberish. Wh- Ack! ...mnnnurraaaaagh! Whoa! What’s this feeling?! Everything’s looking, feeling, and sounding so much clearer now! 

Azmur: Lord Arvis... Are Sigurd and his party truly on the march to our holy capital?
Arvis: Indeed, but we've no cause for alarm. Duke Langbalt and his army stands ready at Lubeck. It is only a matter of time before their insurrection is suppressed.
Azmur: Even so... Even now, it is almost beyond belief, is it not? That Lord Byron would slay Kurth... Or that Sigurd would incite a rebellion...
Arvis: Your Majesty, if I may explain once more... Lord Byron was plotting against the crown in concert with the late Lord Ring of Jungby. His Highness fell afoul of their assault, an act to which our very own Dukes Reptor and Langbalt bore witness. His Highness learned of their schemes to seize the throne from the royal family too late, and pair for it with his life. Naturally, Lord Sigurd had a hand in his father's revolt. What clearer proof is there than how he still harbors an enemy, the Isaachian prince? There is no question. Their treason against the state is grave. I, too, feel this pain as my own, having lost not only a prince but a father-in-law... And in the name of my beloved wife, Princess Deirdre, I will never allow Sigurd's traitorous rampage to stand! Even if Duke Langbalt fails to defeat him, that is not the end! The elite fire mages of House Velthomer, the Rot Ritter, stand ready to suppress this rebellion, once and for all!
Azmur: I see... If you say it is so, then perhaps... Perhaps this could never have been avoided... Arvis, about... Cough! About Deirdre...
Deirdre: Oh, Grandfather! Are you sure you feel all right? Please, you mustn't stress yourself! Come, lie down.
Azmur: Ah... Deirdre. Bless you... You truly are a sweet child. Even if I have little time left, you give me hope for Grannvale's future... I can scarcely imagine when Kurth would have had as fine a daughter as you... But there is no doubt in my mind. None outside the royal House Belhalla possess the same Brand that graces your brow. Whence did you come, my dear? Where in the world have you been all along...
Deirdre: I'm so sorry, Grandfather... I simply don't remember. Try as I may, I cannot recall even a single thing...
Azmur: Ah, forgive me, my dear... I know you have suffered more and long than any of us.
Arvis: From the moment I found her lost in the castle grounds, it was clear she had no memory of her past. All she knew was her own name. The rest of her past is lost to her. At first I sought only to aid her out of sympathy, as any decent man would do, but before long love took root within me... With all due respect, Deirdre, not once did I suspect that you could possibly be the daughter of our late Prince Kurth.
Azmur: I remember well the day you introduce her as the woman you wished to marry... I simply could not believe what I saw! At first sight... I knew, perhaps as only family can. Precisely as I thought, beneath your circlet lies the Brand of Naga. Lord Arvis, I trust you understand. Only a full-blooded heir to Saint Heim can rightfully wield the Book of Naga and release its true holy power. And the power of Naga is the only power able to oppose the dark lord, Loptyr.
Arvis: I am well aware of the legend, sire.
Azmur: The holy lineage of our lord Naga and Saint Heim must never perish! Deirdre... You must bear a son with all due haste! And should your son be so fortunate as to inherit Naga's power... He shall be the Prince of Grannvale, and shall claim the throne once I am no more. Lord Arvis... until your son has grown into a man, you shall be his regent. Guide him well to adulthood. I trust you understand... Cough! Cough...

André: I suppose it's our turn... Move out! Carve the terror of the Beige Ritter into the traitors' hearts!

@Battle 
Byron: N-no... No! SIGURD! And to think, I was so close... O gods... Why... Why have you forsaken me... 

Oifey: That was quite the fierce bout, sire.
Sigurd: Mm. And to think, none of them were Grannvale's elite! Listen, Oifey, I need to ask something of you.
Oifey: Of course, sire. What is it?
Sigurd: As I recall, the territory of Isaach should be very close to the north-east of Lubeck. From what I've heard, ever since Grannvale won the war, Isaach has been governed by Dannan, Langbalt's eldest son. But I'd wager his influence has yet to reach much of the country's span, so...
Oifey: I beg your pardon, sire?! Are you seriously asking me to abandon you for safety, now of all times? No! I refuse! I will not leave you, sire! I'm here for you no matter what, till I draw my last breath!
Sigurd: Oifey, listen... I know this is a huge imposition, but please. Just hear me out. I... I don't want to lose Seliph. He isn't even two years old yet! I can hardly fight with an infant in tow. Please, Oifey. Take care of Seliph. Take him and find refuge from this blasted war. I know I can trust you, Oifey. You are my only hope.
Oifey: Sire... I... Very well. I'll take Lord Seliph. I'll protect him, no matter what happens. That said, you have to promise me. Promise me that you'll come for us as soon as this war is over. I won't leave you if you can't promise that.
Sigurd: Of course. I swear I'll come for the two of you.
Oifey: Thank you...
Shannan: Hold it! I promised Deirdre that I'll look after Seliph no matter what! I won't hand him over to anyone, not even Oifey, until Deirdre says I can!
Sigurd: Calm down, Shannan... I know you're still hurt about losing Deirdre, but this isn't helping. It's okay. He'll be fine with Oifey.
Shannan: No! I need to protect Seliph! And you're forgetting that the people of Isaach won't exactly be happy to see more Grannvaleans! Oifey alone won't last a minute there, but if I'm there it'll be okay. Who better to protect Seliph in Isaach than the prince of Isaach? Please... I promised her...
Oifey: Now that he mentions it, sire, I would be a tad more at ease if Shannan was there as well. I know you're reluctant to involve one as young as Shannan in something so dangerous. But I think we can agree he's become a talented warrior. Not to mention, I'll need Shannan to secure the people's support.
Sigurd: Hm... I'm sorry to burden you more, Shannan, but please... Take care of Seliph for me.
Shannan: Okay! Leave it to me! I'm gonna keep getting stronger, and nobody'll ever hurt Seliph! I'll teach him all about Deirdre, but... I wonder how he'll take what happened...
Oifey: I suppose we should get going, then. Farewell, sire. Take care of yourself. I pray victory and clemency find you as soon possible.
Sigurd: Thank you, Oifey. Be careful out there.
Oifey: Yes, sir!
Sigurd: Seliph... I'm so sorry. Please, grow up safe and strong...

Quan: Gentlemen, we've not much further to go. Keep giving it your best. Rumor has it that Sigurd's army should be moving south through the Yied Desert. If we keep this pace north, we should be able to rendezvous with them sooner or later.
Ethlyn: Quan, I'm so sorry I dragged you into this. You and your father were too generous sparing so many soldiers to help my brother, even though your father is presently so ill... But are you sure you're both willing to risk crossing a nation as all-powerful as Grannvale? The very thought is terrifying...
Quan: Ethlyn, you know as well as I that Leonster, a nation built on the legacy of the Crusader Nova, is far stronger than its size suggests. No matter what happens, I could never regret giving my all for a cause as just as Sigurd's. My father feels precisely the same way. There's nothing to worry about, Ethlyn. After all, I'm wielding none other than Gáe Bolg! I'll never fail with it at my side! Sigurd could certainly stand to have my aid.
Ethlyn: I suppose you're right. He'd appreciate any help at this point...
Quan: Ethlyn, we'll be entering hostile territory very shortly. The enemy could ambush us at any moment, so...
Ethlyn: Actually, Quan... I've been thinking this over quite a bit, and I'm coming with you after all. I'd like to see my brother again, and I simply can't abandon you now.
Quan: I can't allow that! I let you come with me solely because you promised to return home partway. To say nothing of Altena's presence! Look at her, a mere babe of three years curled up aslumber in her mother's lap. Should we be attacked, what then?
Ethlyn: Why, I'd fight my hardest to protect her. Nobody could possibly seize her from me! I certainly never intended at first to take her with us. But she simply wouldn't stop crying when I tried to leave her behind. You're right, though... You're right. I'll take her home.
Quan: Ethlyn, I'm sorry. I assure you I do know precisely how you feel, but Leif is barely born and waiting for you at home. Our children need their mother. Please, Ethlyn. Return home. I left Finn to defend the capital. You'll be safe with him.
Ethlyn: Very well, but... I'd like just a little more time. I want to stay by your side a little longer. Please, Quan...
Quan: Ethlyn... Very well. We've a little more time to spare.
Travant: Hehehe... Ah, Quan! The poor sod still has no clue we're tailing him. And there's a woman with him? What a clumsy mistake. Why, I daresay this is the long-awaited end of Leonster's famous Lanceritter! Those hooves'll be sinking clean into the sand. They can't so much as flail at us. Men, close in! This is it! Thracia's destiny lies before us, ripe for the grasping!
Quan: What? Thracian wyvern knights?! No... You cannot be serious! Travant has been at our heels all along! Ethlyn, run! We've no hope of victory in this blasted desert!
Ethlyn: But... What will you do?
Quan: They're like wild hyenas, Ethlyn! Children are little more than easy targets for them! Thracia has sought to reconquer our territory for centuries. I thought my absence would be taken as an invitation, so I left Finn behind with half the army in case they made the obvious move. Not once... Not even once did I ever suspect they would pursue US instead! I... This was all a mistake...
Ethlyn: You can't give up now, Quan! It'll be okay. We're together, aren't we? At the very least, together we'll not go down easily!
Quan: Ethlyn... Forgive me, please...

Arvis: I see. Duke Langbalt fell in battle...
Reptor: A-Arvis! What are we supposed to do now?! It was you who insisted that, even if we left the bulk of our armies on conquests with our sons, Sigurd would pose no threat to me at all! The situation before us is not the outcome you promised me!
Arvis: Reptor, your overreaction is baseless. The deck is still stacked in our favor. The Velthomer army is already lying in wait for the rebels in the Yied Desert's depths. Furthermore, Thracian sellswords should be arriving to reinforce us at any moment. The enemy will assuredly be exhausted. So long as my army and yours cooperate, Sigurd and his rebels ought to fall with ease.
Reptor: I'm holding you to your word this time, Arvis. Remember, I've no objection to you alone claiming the throne once Azmur finally dies. But don't you dare forget your allies...
Arvis: Of course. Must I remind you? The instant the dust of this war settles, House Friege will be granted the Agustrian throne to govern. House Dozel, meanwhile, will be entrusted with the rule of Isaach. Rest assured, Reptor. I will honor your rights to these territories.
Reptor: Hrm... Very well. Then I, too, will fight with all I have...
Manfroy: Kehehehehe... Greetings, Lord Arvis. The plan proceeds precisely on time, I see...
Arvis: Manfroy... If I've told you once, I've told you a thousand times... You must not show your face here. Until the Grannvale throne is mine, I cannot allow you or your brethren to appear in public. Do you not understand?
Manfroy: Oh, we understand. We understand how you indulge the greed of men as vile as Reptor and Langbalt. We understand how even then, you still will not concede the very fact of our existence. The plan was to use those two buffoons until they could be used no further, then cast them aside and use their sons in their stead... Was it not?
Arvis: Mm, but... Hear me well, Manfroy. I refuse to have any part in the revival of your Loptyr Empire. I've no desire to oppress your cult, but I've even less of a desire to consign the world to your dark lord's rule. Remember this well. Yes, the blood of Loptyr's scions flows in my veins, but there is so much more to me than that. My Loptyrian heritage is that of Saint Maira, a man who fought for the rights of the people. And more importantly, I am the one true heir to the Crusader Vala, Loptyr's sworn enemy. I will change this world for the better. Under my rule, humanity shall be free from the pain of prejudice, tyranny and oppression! What a pity it is, that Sigurd must die, but alas, all things require sacrifice.
Manfroy: Ohohoho... A sacrifice for the sake of the Lady Deirdre, you mean. You are terrified, Lord Arvis. You fear her memory may someday return...
Arvis: Don't you dare bring her into this! Need I remind you? We. Are. In. LOVE! Nothing will ever come between us!
Manfroy: Heh heh heh... I suppose you two need to hasten and make proof of this love of yours. Proof that will one day grow up and rise to be a most magnificent king! Heh heh heh...

Vaha: The rebels are finally headed this way? Heh, excellent. Let them walk right into the range of my welcoming gift: Meteor spells! The desert will gladly claim their bodies!

Travant: What's this? The woman was fool enough to have a child with her? Ah, I see... Quan's daughter. Interesting... You there! Tell Quan this: If he doesn't surrender Gáe Bolg, his daughter will meet an untimely end. Heh heh heh... Your move, Quan. Your move.
Quan: N-no! Altena... Ethlyn... So this is where it ends... Travant! You can have Gáe Bolg, but don't you DARE so much as scratch Altena!

Travant: And so ends Quan... Magorn! You're in charge now. Head north and give Sigurd's army a fair share of grief. Let none of them escape. There's a fine bounty on each traitorous head, after all.
Magorn: Yes, Sir! Er, that said, what are we supposed to do with this child? She's just crying and crying. We don't know how to handle this. Shall I put her out of her misery, sir?
Travant: Certainly not. Hand her over to me. She and Gáe Bolg are coming with me back to Thracia.
Magorn: Can't say I expected this, sir. If I may, why exactly are you taking her home with you?
Travant: Moron! You've no need to know! Keep that mouth of yours out of business that isn't yours.
Magorn: Y-yes, sir. I beg your forgiveness, sir. By your leave, sir, we will pursue Sigurd's rebels.
Travant: Good. Don't fail me.

Travant: What’s this? The woman was fool enough to have a child with her? Ah, I see... Quan’s daughter. Interesting. Hand her over to me. Hand her over to me. She and Gáe Bolg are coming with me back to Thracia.
Magorn: Can't say I expected this, sir. If I may, why exactly are you taking her home with you?
Travant: Moron! You've no need to know! Keep that mouth of yours out of business that isn't yours.
Magorn: Y-yes, sir. I beg your forgiveness, sir. By your leave, sir, we will pursue Sigurd's rebels.
Travant: Good. Don't fail me.

Sigurd: Good. We've finally claimed Phinora. The fatherland is finally within our reach. Oifey and Shannan... I pray they and Seliph are faring well...
Old man: Lord Sigurd, I presume? Welcome to Phinora.
Sigurd: Ah, you must be the local elder. My apologies for dragging even an oasis town like Phinora into this godforsaken war.
Old man: Mm, at this point it was unavoidable. Actually, we've just received word of yet another skirmish in the desert's southern depths. Alas, we find ourselves in dangerous times...
Sigurd: In the south, you say... What happened there?
Old man: As we understand it, the lance knights of Leonster were on a march north. They were savaged by Thracian wyvern knights en route. There were no survivors, it seems.
Sigurd: W-what?! You can't be serious!
Old man: I'm sorry to say I am. By the sound of it, there was a young girl in the Leonster party. Our hearts all break for the poor dear...
Sigurd: That's... that was Ethlyn and Quan... Forgive... forgive me...

Travant: And so ends Quan... Magorn! You're in charge now. Head north and give Sigurd's army a fair share of grief. Let none of them escape. There's a fine bounty on each traitorous head, after all.
Magorn: Yes, Sir! Er, that said, what are we supposed to do with this child? She's just crying and crying. We don't know how to handle this. Shall I put her out of her misery, sir?
Travant: Certainly not. Hand her over to me. She and Gáe Bolg are coming with me back to Thracia.
Magorn: Can't say I expected this, sir. If I may, why exactly are you taking her home with you?
Travant: Moron! You've no need to know! Keep that mouth of yours out of business that isn't yours.
Magorn: Y-yes, sir. I beg your forgiveness, sir. By your leave, sir, we will pursue Sigurd's rebels.
Travant: Good. Don't fail me.

Aida: Lord Reptor, we’re depending upon you.
Reptor: Of course. Even so... I cannot help but wonder if Arvis will honor his word. Perhaps... Perhaps we are nothing more but sacrifices to him.
Aida: Lord Arvis is hard at working making the final adjustments to his Velthomer battle plan. You’ve no need to worry, sire.
Reptor: Very well. I’ll take you at your word, then. 
Aida: Now, if you’ll excuse me, sire, I must return to the helm of the Velthomer barricades.

Aida: Heh... He hasn't a clue, has he? Wretched fool...

Reptor: This is it. Until Arvis is ready to move out, this battle is ours and ours alone. Hold to your positions until the enemy stumbles into our range. Do not move otherwise!

Reptor: This is it. The time to strike is upon us! With the fire mages of Velthomer at our side, we shall crush the rebels in one fell swoop!
Aida: Execute the plan. Concentrate all of your fire on Reptor and his army. There will be no survivors under any circumstance. Am I clear?

Reptor: W-what? Velthomer has turned on us?! Argh... So this is what Arvis planned all along...

@End 
Aida: Ah, Lord Sigurd. I'm glad to see you're safe.
Sigurd: What's going on? What's caused Velthomer's change of loyalties?
Aida: Lord Arvis has long been aware of your innocence, and was on your side all along. This affair in its entirety was dictated by the whims of Reptor and Langbalt, architects of the conspiracy against you. Lord Arvis was unable to act until now, as the dukes' control of the royal court was simply too powerful to contravene.
Sigurd: Is that so... All's well that ends well, then. I can restore my father's good name in the court, and that'll be the end of it.
Aida: Indeed. Lord Arvis and His Majesty await your return in Belhalla, Lord Sigurd. Please, make your way to the royal city as soon as possible.
Sigurd: Really? Very well. I'll be going, then.
Aida: I hear that Lord Arvis arranged a ceremonial reception for you with the entirety of the Belhalla royal guard. Quite the magnificent celebration of your glorious return is in order today, it seems.
Sigurd: Thank you. After all that's happened the past few years, this ought to be a fitting conclusion. Once we're done I should look into getting my allies some compensation for their help. They certainly deserve it after all this!
Aida: Indeed, sir...

@Cutscene
Arvis: Ah, Lord Sigurd. Truly this is quite the auspicious day. Congratulations on your triumphant return to the fatherland!
Sigurd: It's good to see you too, Lord Arvis, and thank you for such a lavish greeting! If I may ask, where is His Majesty?
Arvis: Alas, His Majesty is taken severely ill. He has become permanently bedridden. As such, I am administering all affairs of state on his behalf for the time being.
Sigurd: Is that so? I'm sorry to hear that. I bet my misadventures didn't help His Majesty feel any better! Once we're finished here, I should visit the palace and give him my sincerest apologies.
Arvis: ...I think not.
Sigurd: Hm?
Arvis: Sigurd of Chalphy, I hereby sentence you to death for your crimes of treason. His Majesty will not be seeing you, today or ever.
Sigurd: W-what?! What are you talking about, Lord Arvis?!
Arvis: Heh... You are only realizing now? You are far too naïve, Sigurd. Need I remind you that you and your father still sought to usurp the throne and plotted against the crown? Nothing has changed. It is my duty to exact justice upon you, in the name of my wife, Princess Deirdre. I trust you understand, Sigurd.
Sigurd: P-Princess Deirdre?! That... No, it can't be...
Arvis: Ah, of course. You've never met, correct? Very well. I suppose an introduction would be a fair parting gift before your demise. Come, Deirdre! Greet our guests!
Arvis: Deirdre, allow me to introduce you to Sigurd: the spawn of your father's murderer, Byron. I trust you have some choice words for him?
Deirdre: So... So this is... Sir Sigurd?
Sigurd: Deirdre?! No... This can't be happening...
Deirdre: Why... Why are you speaking like this...?
Sigurd: Deirdre! It really is you! No... No, no, no...
Deirdre: Do... Do you know me, sir?
Sigurd: OF COURSE I DO! YOU'RE MY-
Arvis: Enough! Deirdre, stand clear. This is an extremely dangerous man. Rest assured: this traitor will be punished.
Deirdre: But... He... He's... Can't we have even a little more time?
Arvis: Unacceptable. Guards! Escort the princess to the castle!
Deirdre: Wait! Arvis, please! ...Just a little more time...
Sigurd: W-wait! DEIRDRE! Arvis, please! I beg of you! She... She's my...
Arvis: Enough! I grow weary of your ravings. Attention, men! We no longer have any use for keeping the traitors alive. Move in on Sigurd and his party! The time to serve them their punishment has come!
Sigurd: ...D... DAMN YOU, ARVIS!!

@Narration 
And thus comes the end of an era.
The path of Grannvale's great unrest, arising from the conflict with Isaach, has led one young man to his grim fate. His sorrowful tale, and those of countless other valiants, are not lost to the world.
Many heroes lost their lives on this path...
Quan, the prince of Leonster...
Ethlyn, his wife...
And Sigurd, the young heir of Chalphy...
And the names of those heroes who fought alongside Sigurd to the bitter end at Belhalla, whose fates remain unknown...
These brave youths fought to change the world for the better, yet now their unfulfilled dreams lie dead with them on the battlefield...
Was their sacrifice in vain? What were they fighting for all along?
And what of the light...?

@Visit 
Woman: Heard the news? Grannvale's army just swept in and seized Lubeck Castle! Oh... I fear for Silesse's future...

Young man: To think, Silesse remained such a peaceful place for generations and generations! Argh, how did this world turn into such a savage place...

Old man: It seems that strengths and abilities are passed down from parents to children. You'll often find that boys'll take up their father's traits more dominantly, while girls'll be more strongly influenced by their mother's.

Woman: That Langbalt's got his thugs going around and clearing out every village they can find! Good thing we somehow kept a little bit of gold hidden away from those brutes! Go on, take it. We know you need it more than us.

Young woman: Did ya know? The famous Lord Eldigan of Nordion and his wife had themselves a little son before he died a while back. His name's, er... Ares? Something like that. I feel pretty bad for the poor boy... He's gotta be just three or four years old...

Young man: 'S been a while since Grannvale beat Isaach in the war, but they're strugglin' to put down resistance out in its farthest corners. But the people of Isaach ain't givin' up hope. Prince Shannan's still out there, an' they know someday he'll lead 'em to freedom!

Man: It's terrifying just how far Grannvale has fallen from the peaceful nation it used to be! All they ever do these days is set their army on every country they can get their hands on. Prince Kurth'd be utterly ashamed to know what's become of his beloved Grannvale... You have to do something! I'm begging you... Go to Grannvale! Take the country back from the wicked folk who are perverting all it holds dear!

@Battle-Talk 
%Sigurd,Byron
Sigurd: It can't be... F-Father?! Thank the gods! You're alive!
Byron: Sigurd... What a splendid young man you've become... Cough! C-cough...
Sigurd: Father! Come on, you mustn't give in now!
Byron: No... There's no hope left for me now... Listen well, my son. Langbalt was Prince Kurth's true killer. And Reptor is the one holding his leash... His Majesty must know the truth! I... Death holds no fear for me. But I cannot die in peace not knowing if our honor shall be cleansed of these lies.
Sigurd: It's just as I thought all along... Rest assured, Father. Our good name will be cleared. I promise.
Byron: Sigurd, I... I beg your forgiveness... 'Tis my negligence which condemned you to these torments... Sigurd... Take this. It is Tyrfing... Our exalted blade...
Sigurd: Tyrfing... But, Father! Surely you'll still need this...
Byron: Take it, Sigurd. Use it to... restore our... honor...
Sigurd: F-Father! Hold on... Please! Father...
Oifey: Sire...
Sigurd: Why... Why in the world did he have to... Gah... Reptor! Langbalt! Mark my words! You will pay dearly for all you've done!

%Aideen,Brigid
Aideen: Is something wrong, Brigid?
Brigid: Oh, Aideen. You heard about what André's been up to lately, right?
Aideen: I did. I've heard of how he murdered our father, and later Mahnya died in Silesse as well... I can barely imagine the evil which would have possessed him to do such monstrous things.
Brigid: ...I'm going to kill André. There's no other way. Whatever the evil is, he has to be stopped. Right here, right now. You get what I'm saying, right, Aideen?
Aideen: Brigid...
Brigid: André's crimes are House Jungby's crimes. They're our crimes, too. They reflect badly on us, even though they really shouldn't. I know I'll have his blood on my hands for the rest of my life, but... Aideen, I want you to understand.
Aideen: Of course I do, Brigid...

%Claud,Aideen
Claud: This is the end, Aideen. Our final battle.
Aideen: Indeed.
Claud: I have a little gift for you. Here. Use this to aid our young comrades.
Aideen: This is a Rescue staff, is it not? Thank you, but... why me?
Claud: Well... I’ve yet to speak a word of this to anyone, but as my wife... You should know. Listen well, Aideen. We cannot prevail. This war today will end with our defeat. Everything we hold dear will be lost.
Aideen: ...I beg your pardon?!
Claud: Such is the decree of the gods that I received at the Tower of Bragi. I, too, struggled to accept it at first. However, this is our fate. It is inevitable. I know I am destined to die in this battle. Thus, I entrust you with this staff.
Aideen: That... You must be lying! I cannot believe any of it! I cannot! Please... Please! Tell me this is just a cruel joke...
Claud: Aideen, there is no need to grieve. Our deaths are not the end, but rather a new beginning for us all. Life is fated to fade into death, and with it, so too does mortal form die. And yet, never shall life fade into total nothingness. Death is but the herald for the next step to a perfect state of being. It holds no fear for mankind.
Aideen: But... But, Claude...
Claud: Even as I greet death, a rebirth awaits... Why, look no further than yourself for proof! Within you grows a new life waiting to be born, and I too am a part of it. This, Aideen, is why you must live on.
Aideen: Do... Do you realize what you’re saying, Claud?! Asking me to live on while I accept your death... It isn’t fair...
Claud: Aideen...  I am richly blessed to have known you and been your husband, even so briefly. Please, forgive me...
Aideen: Claude....

%Sigurd,Ayra
Sigurd: Hold on... Ayra?! Why are you still here? Didn't I task you with accompanying Shannan and Oifey to Isaach?
Ayra: You did, but I feel I'd always regret abandoning your army at such a crucial hour. I'm with you until the end, Sigurd.
Sigurd: I don't believe this... If you're not going, how are you supposed to protect Shannan?
Ayra: Ah, of course. My pledge to my late brother... Shannan has grown into a strong young man, capable of leading his own life. My work is done. He no longer needs my protection.
Sigurd: But-
Ayra: Once I've seen this war through, I'll return to his side in Isaach. Until then, Sigurd, I won't run away. For better or worse, I'm with you.

%Lex,Azelle
Lex: Geez, Azelle, you look awful! What's going on?
Azelle: Oh, Lex... Why are you looking so happy?
Lex: Huh? Oh, right. My dad...
Azelle: Mm...
Lex: Yeah... I'm gonna be honest, Azelle. It's not that I feel nothing at all about what happened. Can't be helped, right? But after all the pain and suffering Dad caused... Well, he deserved to go down.
Azelle: Oh... You know, I've always admired you for your resilience, Lex. Just thinking about my brother is enough to make me tremble.
Lex: Yeah, Arvis has always struck me as quite an odd one, but he's always been a decent fellow. I still can't see him as our enemy...
Azelle: I know... Arvis has always been like a father to me, and I never knew my real father. The problem is, sometimes he just... He just changes! It's as if he becomes a whole different man. That's why I...
Lex: That's why you up and left him behind at home, right? There's nothing wrong with that, Azelle. He's got his life, and you've got yours. Don't beat yourself up about it, okay?
Azelle: I suppose you're right...

%Dew,Jamke
Dew: Hey... Jamke?
Jamke: Dew? Still here, are you? Look, didn't you hear us the first time? You're just in the way now. Go on, get outta here!
Dew: Ugh, why's everyone sayin' that?! What is WITH you lot lately? We're so close to winnin' this thing, but you wouldn't know it from how you're all actin'! What's goin' on here?
Jamke: Oh, er, sorry... You're right. I guess I am a bit tense at the moment. Not sure why, though...
Dew: ...Look, Jamke. You're a neat guy and I like you. I know I've kinda been a pain in the neck right from the start and... Er, sorry.
Jamke: Huh? Why're you so sappy all of a sudden? If anyone's being weird now, it's you!
Dew: Er, well, I kinda... Never mind. I guess I'll see ya later.
Jamke: Huh... Even Dew can tell something's not right here...

%Ayra,Arden
Ayra: You holding up okay here, Arden?
Arden: Phew... I think the weight of this armor’s finally starting to catch up with me.
Ayra: Hah! But I do love how manly you look in it.
Arden: Oh, thanks! It’s nice to hear you say that. Just as nice as how womanly you are, Ayra!
Ayra: Womanly? Hah! Good one.
Arden: No, really! That’s how I see you, Ayra. You’re the loveliest lass I’ve ever known.
Ayra: Are you sure you’re just feeling okay, Arden?
Arden: I can’t just not say this stuff, can I? After all, Ayra, I really do love you.
Ayra: W-wh... Arden, you silly man...

%Ayra,Lex
Ayra: I guess we're nearing the end here, Lex.
Lex: Yeah... Y'know, Ayra, your stubbornness never ceases to amaze. Why didn't you just leave for Isaach?
Ayra: Why should I have? Because I'm a woman?! Why didn't you leave? You're every bit as responsible for the children as I am!
Lex: Yeah, you're right... Sorry about that. But I dunno... I'm still not sure we should've abandoned the kids like that.
Ayra: That's why, the instant this war is over, we'll go back to Isaach for them. Together.
Lex: Fair enough. C'mon, let's get this over with!
Ayra: Lex... I'm sorry about all that. I've always been a fighter. This is the only life I have.
Lex: Hah! It's fine, Ayra. I know. That's what I love about you, isn't it? I have no idea how this thing'll play out, but we're in it together, no matter what.
Ayra: Heh... Thank you, Lex.

%Ayra,Holyn
Ayra: I guess we’re nearing the end here, Holyn.
Holyn: Mm...
Ayra: There’s just one thing I’d like to ask you, Holyn. Is that alright?
Holyn: Sure. What is it?
Ayra: You’ve always talked about wanting to protect me. What’s the reason behind that?
Holyn: I’ve known you since we were kids, Ayra. Nothing’s more important to me than making sure you’re safe.
Ayra: What?! It can’t be... Holyn, are you...
Holyn: The Lord of Sophara’s kid? Yeah, I am. And right from the start, Ayra, you stole my stupid little heart...

%Lachesis,Noish
Lachesis: Hold it, Noish!
Noish: Lachesis?! You shouldn’t still be here! I thought we agreed you’d go to Leonster!
Lachesis: I’ve sent the children there already, but I can’t leave. I won’t leave! I’ll fight at your side till the bitter end!
Noish: You promised you would, Lachesis! The children need their mother to survive all of this, and they’re not even the only ones! What about Lord Eldigan’s son?
Lachesis: Ares... I don’t even know what happened to Ares after Agustria fell.
Noish: Lord Sigurd is gravely worried about Ares. After all, the boy lost his father at such a young age. Do you not care for Ares’ safety as well?
Lachesis: Of course I do! But... Oh, never mind. For the gods’ sakes, Noish, I am your wife! I’ll never sit back while you risk your life!
Noish: I know, Lachesis. I know, and I love you dearly. Never forget that.
Lachesis: Of course I won’t, dear. ...Sorry.

%Lachesis,Dew
Lachesis: And what exactly do you think you’re still doing here, Dew?!
Dew: Oh, come on! I’m a lot stronger than all of ya seem to think!
Lachesis: Look, Dew I know you are. I know. The problem is, this battle is far beyond anything we’ve ever seen before. You simply won’t be able to cope, Dew.
Dew: Ugh, this isn’t even the first time you’ve said that all day! I’m not just a kid anymore!
Lachesis: I know, Dew. After all, I know more than most about how you’re not just a kid anymore! Heh heh!
Dew: Aw, look, Lachesis! You’re blushing!
Lachesis: Oh, Dew! Stop teasing!
Dew: Well... Guess it was nice knowin’ ya, Lachesis. Thanks for all the fun we’ve had. 
Lachesis: Dew... Take care of yourself, too.

%Lachesis,Beowulf
Lachesis: Beowulf...
Beowulf: Look, Lachesis. If somethin' happens t'me, I want ya to go to Leonster fer me. Quan's kids're there with Finn. Help 'em out where I can't, yeah?
Lachesis: No! You mustn't say such things! If I go to Leonster, you will come with me!
Beowulf: Lachesis... I don't think I've done right by ya.
Lachesis: W-what? Why...?
Beowulf: I knew how ya really felt all along...
Lachesis: ...Oh!
Beowulf: Look after yerself, Lachesis. This was fun while it lasted.
Lachesis: Wait! Beowulf!!

%Silvia,Alec
Silvia: Oh, there y'are, Alec!
Alec: Silvia? Aw, geez! You shouldn't still be out here! Just go back to the castle! Please?
Silvia: But I'm really worried 'bout ya, Alec...
Alec: Listen, Silvia. You've gotta act a bit less like a child. C'mon, you're a mother now!
Silvia: Not like you're one to talk on that one! That part's your fault too, remember?
Alec: Y-yeah, I guess...
Silvia: Look, Alec, you've gotta come back from this thing, okay? Without ya, I don't think Lene and me'll last... Promise? Please?
Alec: Silvia... Yeah, I promise. I'm coming home from this one...

%Silvia,Lewyn
Silvia: Say, Lewyn...
Lewyn: Hm? What is it, Silvia?
Silvia: Do ya still like me, Lewyn?
Lewyn: What? Where'd THAT come from?!
Silvia: Well, do ya?
Lewyn: Of course I still love you! That's why we're married, remember?
Silvia: Oh... 'Course. Whew. Be... Because I love you too, Lewyn... I'll never forget ya... And I don't want ya to forget me...
Lewyn: Silvia...

%Silvia,Claud
Silvia: Hey, Claud, you doin’ okay?
Claud: Yes, I’m fine. But you shouldn’t still be here, Silvia. There’s nothing you can do, and you are only endangering yourself.
Silvia: But...
Claud: Please, Silvia. You cannot stay with me this time.
Silvia: But Claude... I love ya...
Claud: And I, you. That is why I ask...
Silvia: No! I’m with ya ‘til death parts us!
Claud: Silvia, please... I can’t allow that... Please understand... 

%Erinys,Noish
Erinys: Oh, Noish! There you are!
Noish: Is everything alright, Erinys?
Erinys: Yes, I'm fine.
Noish: That's a relief. Erinys, please... Do be careful out here. There are others depending on your health and safety now.
Erinys: I hope the children are okay back in Silesse. The sooner we can see them again, the better.
Noish: Mm... For their sake, Erinys, lets see if we can finish up this fight as quickly as possible.
Erinys: Certainly! But Noish... Please, be careful as well...

%Erinys,Arden
Erinys: How are you feeling, Arden?
Arden: I’m getting real tired of this bloody desert! 
Erinys: Heh. It’s a shame you can’t ride my pegasus with me, isn’t it?
Arden: Mm. Maybe if I lost some of this 200-ish pounds of armor, I could.
Erinys: Say, Arden... Try not to die. Please.
Arden: Of course! I can’t exactly go dying now that I’ve got a lass as lovely as you to support, can I? Maybe once this war’s done, when we go back to Silesse we could quit fighting for a change and start ourselves a little shop!
Erinys: Heh... That isn’t a bad idea.

%Erinys,Lewyn
Erinys: We've nearly reached the end, Lewyn.
Lewyn: Mm. But don't go forgetting that promise you made, Erinys.
Erinys: Of course. I'm to return to Silesse, no matter what happens.
Lewyn: Trust me, I'm not planning on dying out here. You're not going to die any time soon, either!
Erinys: Of course! I promise... Being with you... It's as if all my childhood dreams have come true! I'm not going to just die and waste that. I'll always be with you, Lewyn. Always. No matter what.
Lewyn: Mother's still waiting for us back in Silesse... Hell, she's probably waiting for YOU more than anything else!
Erinys: Heh... I hope that Queen Rahna... Wait, no. That Mother will be proud of me!

%Brigid,Alec
Brigid: Not too far to Belhalla, isn’t it, Alec?
Alec: Yeah. This is going to be quite the little homecoming, eh?
Brigid: This’ll be the first time I can remember that I’m at home. What’s Jungby like?
Alec: It’s a lovely place. Just lovely! Heh... Plenty of lovely ladies there, too.
Brigid: Ugh... Am I going to find you in bed with another woman one day, Alec?
Alec: Heh, I’m kidding, I’m kidding! If I’m to die it won’t be over some other lady! 
Brigid: Good. You’re not gonna do me much good if you’re dead, are you? After all, we’ve still got to finish up here first! And I guess I can’t just let you die if it means the kids won’t have a dad....
Alec: Don’t worry! Luck’s on my side, just like always. How else do you explain me getting married to someone like you?
Brigid: Oh, Alec... 

%Brigid,Midir
Brigid: You holding up okay, Midir?
Midir: Mm, I’m fine. And how about you?
Brigid: Yeah. I’m okay. I know I’ll be okay if I’m right here with you.
Midir: I’m so glad we met, Brigid, and I’ll always be grateful for our time together.
Brigid: Excuse me? This had better not be some clumsy attempt to end this marriage, Midir!
Midir: Er, sorry about that. I just wanted to make sure you knew...
Brigid: Midir, listen. I know about how you mooned after Aideen all those years. You sure you’re happy with just me. 
Midir: Of course! Yes, I liked Lady Aideen... But it was never real love. You’re the only one I’ve ever really loved!
Brigid: Thanks, Midir... I’m here for you until the end...

%Brigid,Jamke
Brigid: You holding up okay, Jamke? Bet you're getting tired.
Jamke: Yeah, I'm doing fine. And you?
Brigid: Yeah, 'cause I've got you at my side...
Jamke: Are you sure I can't persuade you to escape, Brigid? I'm still not comfortable with you fighting in this mess of a battle.
Brigid: Oh, yeah. Dead sure, Jamke. Do you really still have to ask? You'd think I'd have made my point by now.
Jamke: Right...
Brigid: Jamke... You sure you're happy with me?
Jamke: Hm?
Brigid: Are you happy with me? I sorta know what you were like about Aideen...
Jamke: Oh, come on. This again? You're the one I love, Brigid. You're the one I want to spend the rest of my life with.
Brigid: S-sorry about that... Still glad I asked, though...

%Tailtiu,Azelle
Tailtiu: Don’t go, Azelle!
Azelle: Tailtiu, you promised you would be headed for Silesse by now! I swear I’ll follow you as soon as I possibly can.
Tailtiu: But...
Azelle: You cannot fight the Freege army! Do you really plan on attempting to kill your own father, Tailtiu?
Tailtiu: Er... No, I don’t think I can...
Azelle: Good. I don’t think I could stomach the idea of you, or anyone else, being willing to kill their father. Look after the children for me, Tailtiu.
Tailtiu: Azelle? Azelle!!

%Tailtiu,Lex
Tailtiu: You’ve still gotta fight, don’t you, Lex?
Lex: Yeah, I do. Tailtiu, just go ahead to Silesse already. I know you’ll be safe there.
Tailtiu: How can you be so cruel, leaving me alone?
Lex: Look, all of House Freege is out here doing their damnedest to take you back, whether you want to or not. And I don’t think I could live with myself if you or the kids were taken by them or the Dozels. You’ve gotta understand!
Tailtiu: But...
Lex: Look, right from the start, fate seriously screwed us both over. I wish we’d had longer together, but what little time we did have’ll always mean so much to me, right till the end. 
Tailtiu: Oh, Lex... 

%Tailtiu,Claud
Tailtiu: Claud, what do you think I should do?
Claud: Fighting the Freege army is out of the question. I don't believe engaging your own father in battle is at all advisable. Please, go to Silesse. There is still a safe, peaceful life awaiting you there.
Tailtiu: But what about you, Claud?
Claud: I have an obligation, Tailtiu. My fate is to stay here and see this war through till its very end.
Tailtiu: How can you be so cruel? Wh... What about our children?!
Claud: I understand how difficult this fate will be for you, but please... Please understand.
Tailtiu: Claud!!

%Alec,Noish
Alec: Well, Noish, I suppose this is it.
Noish: Mm... 
Alec: Thanks for everything.
Noish: You, too... 
Alec: It’s been quite an adventure, huh?
Noish: That it has.
Alec: Take care of yourself, alright?
Noish: And you as well... 

@Character-Falls 
Byron: Gah... Is this as far as I'll go?

Byron: Oh, Sigurd... I've failed you...

Ethlyn: Hold tight, Altena! I'll protect you no matter what!

Ethlyn: Ahh! Altena... Quan... I'm so sorry...

Quan: Away, Thracian beasts! So long as I hold Gáe Bolg, only one of us will live this day!

Quan: Blast! Can I go no further...?

Quan: Oh, Ethlyn... Forgive me... Finn... I entrust Leif... to you...

@Boss 
Magorn: Don't take this personally. We've all got to make a living somehow...

Magorn: Gah... Glory be to Thracia!

%Sigurd,Mgorn
Magorn: So, you’re the infamous Sigurd, are you? Heh... Not as impressive as the stories say...

@Boss 
Slayder: What's this? You rebels have already come this far? How could you have breached our front lines so quickly?

Slayder: Unnh... We've been breached, too...?

%Byron,Slayder
Slayder: My apologies, Lord Byron, but orders are orders. This is where you meet your end! 

@Boss 
André: Heh heh... Welcome, fools. Allow me to give you a fool's death!

André: Th-this can't be... Scopio... Avenge me!

%Aideen,André
André: Oho, look what we have here! My dear sister, the traitor, turning up in a place like this. Your sins have soiled the honor of my House Jungby, and now, you must make your amends with your very life.
Aideen: André... What a pitiful man you've become...

%Brigid,André
André: What? Could it be... Brigid?! So, not only do I hear that you sunk as low as piracy, but now you are party to treasonous deeds... No matter what it takes, you - the shame of my house - must be put to a timely death.
Brigid: Enough! You murdered your own father! You, André, are the disgrace to Jungby's honor, and to the good name of the Crusader Ulir!

@Boss 
Langbalt: Bwahahaha! It matters not how many of you worms confront me. So long as I wield the great axe, Helswath, the same fate awaits every last one of you! Stay clear, if you still value your lives!

Langbalt: I-impossible... How could I fall like this...? Dannan... Don't fail me...

%Sigurd,Langbalt
Langbalt: Bwahaha... Would you look at that. The little brat's made it, as well! How perfect! I'll reunite you with your dearly departed father. He ought to be lonely now!
Sigurd: Langbalt... Langbalt!! You will pay for what you did to my father!

%Lex,Langbalt
Langbalt: L-Lex... Vile traitor! You would turn your axe on your own father? Shame on you!
Lex: That's right... Shame on me. Just like you've always said... This is fate, Father. Forgive me...

@Boss 
Vaha: Take this! Feel the fiery wrath of the heavens!

Vaha: Urgh... Oh, Lord Arvis... Forgive my failure...

Reptor: Hm hm hm... It's time you had a lesson in obedience. Your teacher will be the supreme thunder magic Mjölnir!

Reptor: Die! If I'm to burn, you will ALL burn with me!

Reptor: Guhhh... Arvis... What in the blazes are you... scheming?

%Sigurd,Reptor 
Reptor: Pah! Don't make me laugh, you naïve twit! Consider this a lesson in politics and power! Your father had no power, and hence he is dead! Even a common knight such as yourself can surely appreciate this fundamental truth!
Sigurd: A knight appreciates honor and justice. I see neither of those in your actions! For too long you've soiled Grannvale's honor. I've come to set the fatherland to rights!
Reptor: Such a pity your hard work is all for naught! Byron died a sad, pitiful traitor, and you will meet his very same fate at my hands! In the face of the supreme power of thunder, Mjölnir, you are but a candle to be snuffed! Sigurd, your dying thought will lament your complete and utter lack of power Ahahaha...

%Tailtiu,Reptor
Reptor: T-Tailtiu... I can hardly believe it... No matter how traitorous you became... Not once did I expect to face you like this.
Tailtiu: Father... I'm sorry...
Reptor: Curse that Claud! How dare he fill my daughter's head with lies... No, it's too late. I have no choice... I must protect the honor of House Freege. Tailtiu, for your treachery, you must die.
Tailtiu: Oh! Father...

%Aida,Reptor
Reptor: Aida... How dare you! You treacherous wretch...
Aida: Hah! You're as sore a loser as I expected, Reptor. You'd do well to surrender now.




/***EOF***/
