Lukas: Greetings, Alm. Have you grown accustomed to all the fighting yet? ...Ah, of course. I suppose I needn't even have asked. No matter how quiet a village you hail from, in the hands of a capable teacher, one can become every bit as strong as a royal knight. I find that thought quite inspiring. I grew up in the borderlands as well, though not the same as yours. Some in the Deliverance ridicule me for this, calling me a "backwater noble." But unlike them, I rose above my origins on my own merits, and as a result, here I stand today. You never can truly tell where your life is going to take you, Alm.

Lukas: I’m sure Fernand’s behavior shocked you. Unfortunately, many nobles share his disdain for the common folk. Don’t mistake me—I respect the aristocracy’s contributions to Zofia. The kingdom would not be here today were it not for her nobility. But those same nobles are guilty of denying opportunities to the willing. They hoard their knowledge and rights and opportunities, and this is wrong. I hope that aspect of the world changes once the dust settles from this war.

Gray: Do you see, now, how much of a mess the world is outside the village, Alm? Just going to town with Pa for supplies used to be a fight for survival. I worry a little place like Ram won't last long in times like these. Honestly, I really don't care one way or another about the kingdom. I don't have the kind of direction you do. It's more like I just have a nagging desire to do SOMETHING. So I thought if I joined the Deliverance, I might figure out what that is.

Gray: I was just looking for you, O fearless leader! I’ve been meaning to ask you something. It’s not a big deal or anything, but, ummm… Well, how do you feel about Clair? …Aha. Your face says it all. …Plus I kind of figured as much. That just leaves Tobin. And that poor kid’s hardly what I’d call a challenge… …Huh? Oh, you’re still here? Yeah, thanks, but I got the answer I need.

Tobin: Alm! How are you, buddy? ...Me? Well, let's just say I'm figuring things out. Lukas keeps talking about kings and politics, but that does little for me. I'm actually just in it for the gold. I have a family to feed, after all. Well, that and I'm not about to let you outshine me! Hey, don't look at me like that. You don't know what you're up against!

Tobin: Hey Alm, hold up! I was hoping we could have a talk. Huh? Oh, it’s nothing serious, don’t worry. I was just wondering what you thought of Clair. Because, you know, she seems kind of into you, and… Well, yeah. Mostly just that. What? Don’t tell me you haven’t noticed! *sigh* Of course you haven’t. Well, good. Then I guess Gray is my only other competition… Thanks, Alm. That’s all I wanted to talk about.

Kliff: *sigh* The school in town that I went to was closed because of the war. At first, I was glad to leave that place, return to the village, and kick back, but then I remembered how little there is to learn inside a small village. I never hated learning, per se... I just hated all the other hellish parts of attending school. The other students would hound me from sun's rise to set. Just a bunch of lonely little children desperate for friends. ...What? Don't grin at me like that. I mean it.

Faye: Are you used to all this fighting yet, Alm? You always were braver than me. I remember when we were children and those knaves cornered us in the woods. You came to our rescue like a knight in shining armor. Ha ha. Look at you! You’re blushing! But it’s true. You’ve always been my knight, you know? Then and now.

Silque: It was my mother’s idea for me to become a cleric. She was a cleric as well. As for my father, I fear I never met him. When I was little, my mother and I went on a long pilgrimage. So you see, I’m quite used to grueling marches such as this. I can look at the sky and read the weather. I know which plants are edible. So if you find yourself wanting for advice, simply say the word.

Clair: A moment, Alm? I pray you do not take those awful things Fernand said to heart. Not all nobles share his sentiments. You must understand, Fernand has his reasons for feeling as he does. Clive and I have known him since childhood. He loved my brother as his own, and I know there’s good in him yet. When Clive joined the Knights of Zofia, Fernand joined as well. And so did I—mostly because I positively LOATHE being excluded! …What? Of course they let me in! Why wouldn’t they?! Actually, now that you mention it, I never did stop to wonder why. I just asked my father, and soon after, they welcomed me into their ranks.

Clive: My house and Fernand’s have always been close. He, Clair, and I grew up much like members of the same family. But the drought left Fernand’s people starved, and they sacked his manor, killing his parents, his elder sister, and even his younger siblings…. From that day on, he developed an unnatural hatred for commoners. So I pray you can accept my apology for the appalling things he said to you. …Hmm? You think I sound like his true brother? Heh. Well, this would not be the first mess of his I’ve had to smooth over.

Forsyth: Oh! Er, hello, Alm. Are you faring well? I must say, it’s an honor to be fighting alongside Sir Mycen’s grandson. …Laying it on too thick? Ha ha! Oh dear. I’m told I do that a lot. I suppose I just say what I feel without filtering it first. Python told me I should tone it down because it’s rather shameful… But really, what’s the harm?

Python: *yawn* Help you, chief? …You want to talk? ‘Bout what? …About me? Hell, I’m no one special. Pa was a carpenter, and I’m less still. The only reason I joined the army was because it pays better. The world can rot so long as I’ve still got food on the table. Oh, but don’t worry! I’ll fight and all that noise. I’m nothing if not diligent. Ha ha ha.