Lukas: You know, I have an elder brother, but I would not say we are close. We don’t share the same mother, for one. As the elder, he will succeed my father and inherit the family estate. Yet still he sees me as a rival. As such, when word rose of the Deliverance, my brother was overjoyed. He ordered me to leave home and enlist at once. In truth, it was a cunning plan. If Desaix won, he could simply feign ignorance. But if the Deliverance won, he could name himself as its benefactor. …Ah, well. That’s enough musing for one day, I think. Regardless of how I arrived, I am deeply glad to have joined the Deliverance.

Kliff: What’s this about a fight with Celica? You were so close when we were young. You never fought once! Well, regardless, I’m sure there was a reason for it. Celica was never mean, but she could be standoffish. You could always tell she was keeping something bottled up. …Hmm? Well, yes, I suppose I do the same thing from time to time. But when you think about it, it’s kind of selfish. To keep another’s secret is a sign of strength and trust. But when we hold our own secrets in, we’re only judging everyone else. “You can never understand,” we think. It’s sad, but…it’s what we do.

Faye: I don’t mean to pry, Alm, but I heard you and Celica had a fight. Well, don’t feel bad—you’ve been apart a long time, after all. You can’t expect Celica to understand what’s going through your head. Only someone who’s been with you the whole time could ever truly understand. Someone who knows you so well she thinks exactly as you do. Someone who would do whatever you’d ask…if only you would. Those are the sort of friends you need to keep close.

Clair: Gray told me everything, Alm. So you and that Celica woman were friends when you were little? That’s why you seemed so close! Good, then. I was starting to worry. Well, not WORRY. I mean, it’s not my business how you two… Oh, never mind. But are you certain Celica is just a priestess? The way she carried herself was more… refined. Like how you carry yourself.

Gray: Hey, Alm. How goes it? So not to be an old gossip, but I hear you and Celica had a bit of a row. Ladies, am I right? They just looove to get the last word in. I thought it was just my ma and my sister who were like that, but nope! When I found out all women share that trait, my poor heart sank. …Eh? How can I be so sure it’s ALL women? How can you even ask that?! I’ve been to a town! I’ve seen, like, a dozen women! Hell, maybe more!

Tobin: Say, Alm? This may sound a bit strange, but… You’ve changed lately. Well, not “changed.” It’s more like you’ve sort of…found yourself? I’d never have known in Ram Village, but when you get in front of people, you become…larger than life? Is that the right expression? Anyway, you command a lot more attention than you used to.

Silque: …You’d like to know more about Novis? Oh, it’s a peaceful little isle. When I left, the turmoil in mainland Zofia had not yet reached it. But the pirate scourge? Well, that was another matter entirely. They stole food sent from the mainland until we had naught to eat but fish. I’m not complaining—fish is lovely. Another gift from the Mother. But too much of a good thing can grow just a wee bit tiresome… Some of us began to wonder if we might start growing scales. Hee hee.

Python: …How did I end up in the army? Not this again. Well, if you have to know, Forsyth talked me into it. We grew up together, see? He’s a dreamer, that one. When he was little, he said he’d be a Knight of Zofia one day. Hah! He’d have to go back in time and crawl into some noble womb first. Highborn only SAY you can rise up so you’re ready to fight and die for ’em. But fight we did. We battled tooth and nail, and what did we get? A few gold pieces if we were lucky. Certainly no knighthood for us saps. Ah, but then Desaix staged his coup and the knights lost their kingdom. That changed their tune. Now it was “work hard, and you can be an officer!” Forsyth was real proud of himself, but I saw that farce for what it was. There’s no quick path to an easy life, and any who say elsewise are liars.

Luthier: Delthea and I both descend from a bloodline of celebrated mages. We have been blessed with a natural gift for magic, you see. But despite having more talent than me, Delthea has always been ungrateful. She spends more time playing around than training. If she’d taken her studies seriously, she might not have been manipulated. *sigh* Well, no matter. There is little point in lamenting it now…

Mathilda: Yes, Alm? What is it? …Hmm? You want to know how I became so strong? Well, my father was a distinguished warrior of some renown. He trained me relentlessly from a young age, and I embraced it. I saw the pretty maidens around me and wondered if I should be more like them. But they seemed keen on me staying just the way I was, so I did.

Delthea: Hey, Alm! Where’d you use to live? …Ram Village? That’s out in the middle of nowhere! And here I thought you were all chic and metropolitan. Booo-ring! All I know is that when I grow up, I’m getting the heck out of my village. I’m gonna go to the city and fall madly in love with someone suave. …Huh? What does “suave” mean? You know! Suave! Suavy! Suavicious! …I think it means “manly,” maybe? Whatever! As long as he’s not from some backwater village!

Atlas: Priestess! H-hello! …Hmm? I seem aloof? No! That’s not… Well, I mean, can you blame me? It’s just…you’re such a proper lady! I don’t have a clue what to talk about. …Talk about anything? Yeah, that doesn’t really narrow it down. But okay, hmm… Oh! The other day, I was up in the mountains, right? I was sitting on a stump when this bug showed up, so I kinda start poking it. All of a sudden, a swarm of tiny SMALLER bugs burst out of its— …Hmm? I need to stop this instant? Oh. Okay.

Atlas: Say, what do you do when you’re not on a holy mission or whatever? …INTENSE praying and studying, eh? And that’s fun for you, is it? …I see. Well, it’s your job, so whether you enjoy it or not doesn’t matter. See, me, I just love my job. Woodcutting’s a blast! The same mountain can be real different day to day. They’ve got moods. They’ve all been pretty sad lately, though. …Wait, you think Mila’s responsible? Then it’s time we had a talk with her! Let’s bust down those temple doors already!

Mae: Hey, Celica? There’s something I want to ask you. What exactly is your relationship with that boy from the castle? I don’t mean to be a snoopy pants, but I’ve never seen you get so mad. So I figured he must be someone really special to you. …Wait, for reals? He’s just some friend from when you were little? Are you suuure? ‘Cause I don’t buy it. Still, either way, I suppose I’m glad it happened! We hardly ever get to enjoy girl talk like this, after all. …Huh?! MY love life?! N-nope! Sorry! Nothing to see here, move along! No! Really! Really—not a thing! Super boring!

Boey: The people at the castle really didn’t recognize you, did they? I mean, Zofia Castle’s basically your home, right? I can’t really wrap my head around that place being someone’s home. There are just five of us in my home, and it’s packed to the gills! Being poor’s rough sometimes, but we’re all still quite close.

Genny: Who is that boy you met at the castle, Celica? Oh, a friend you grew up with? Aww… And here I thought you’d gone and found a boyfriend! I mean, you two just looked so perfect together. He’s around your age, isn’t he? Mmm. That wouldn’t work for me. I’d prefer to be with someone older. That way you feel like they’re really taking care of you. Hee hee.

Forsyth: I’ve known Python since we were little. We grew up in a tiny town together. My father was a scholar who made a name for himself at our lord’s manor. Naturally, I thought academia would be my lot in life as well, but I could never quite let go of my dreams of being a knight. So I talked Python into joining the army. Not like he had anything better to do. And yes, I knew a commoner like me would never become a knight. But I thought if I fought hard and the king noticed me, then maybe… Pah. It was foolishness. Still, every time I was about to give up, Python would cheer me on. He’d say, “You can’t throw in the towel now!” “That stupid dream is all you’ve got!” …Hmm? You think he was teasing me? What does it matter? Because of him, I kept at it—and look where I am now. A lieutenant in the Deliverance! I couldn’t be happier.

Palla: Back home, my sister Catria and I served as knights of the queen. Not Est, though. She’d already left the order before she was taken prisoner. She chose a peaceful life, and yet ended up with this. It’s a bitter irony.

Palla: Our queen is a beautiful, kind woman. But her siblings caused her terrible grief. Being family allows you to forgive some things you couldn’t otherwise. Though I understand it also makes other things unforgivable.

Catria: If I had to describe my sister Est in a word, it’d be “free”—which is ironic. When the last war ended, she left the order of knights the next day. Said she was opening a shop with some boy she was fond of. She does what she wants and says what she wants, and damn the consequences. There are times I envy her.

Catria: A little while back, someone told me I was cold and stand-offish. Do I really come across that way? Certainly I’m more reserved than either Est or Palla, but isn’t that true for most middle siblings? And whenever I DO have something to say, one of them always beats me to it! Who wouldn’t seem quiet in such circumstances?

Est: Thanks so much for saving me, Celica! I really thought I was gonna be worm’s food there for a bit. I mean, I’ve been through my share of tight scrapes on the battlefield, but I always had my sisters with me. So no matter how bad it got, I knew it would all work out. But this time it was just me, and it was incredibly scary! It really made me realize how much I lean on my sisters.

Kamui: …My hometown? Doesn’t matter. It’s gone now. I used to be a shepherd. A nomad. Me and my whole family. But another tribe edged us out of the market, so we moved to the city. Still, it feels weird to stay in one place for too long. So now I’m a sellsword who straddles the world once more! That’s why traveling with you has been so damn fun.

Leon: Great. We finally get off that infernal boat, and now it’s the desert. Are you doing this on purpose, Priestess? Is it personal? *sigh* I want to get out of here before I dry up like a mummy. If I turn hideous and Valbar abandons me, it’s your fault. …What did you say? …Valbar isn’t the sort to judge people by their appearance? You think I don’t realize that? I know him FAR better than you! Gods, it really throws me when you’re so rational and correct…

Sonya: Hmm? Did you need something, little girl? Apologies. Treating you like a child must chafe a bit. …How’s that again? You agree that you’re still just a child? Well, what a perfectly boring reply. You’re no fun to tease—you know that? Pipe up and speak from the gut every now and again. Quit being so stoic. Aw, don’t give me that sad puppy look. You make it seem like I’m bullying you. I’m just saying you should speak your mind a bit more. That’s all.

Clive: After Desaix killed the king and the knights were effectively disbanded, it was Mathilda who suggested we regroup and start the Deliverance. While I wallowed in my stupor and wondered what would become of us, she was the calm voice of wisdom who knew what must be done. I have been pursued by many high- standing women in dresses most fine, but Mathilda was the first to truly stand shoulder-to-shoulder with me. She is a goddess made flesh—and one I scarcely deserve.

Jesse: Heeeeey, Celica! You’re looking downright radiant today. Ha ha ha! No, I’m not kidding. I’m serious as a stab wound. I just call ’em as I see ’em, and I got the world’s cutest girl in front of me. …Huh? Are all men like me? Gosh, I couldn’t really say. I’m not really a fan of being lumped in with other guys, ya know?

Jesse: Man, the ladies in this army are fierce as hell AND gorgeous. I love it! I wake up every day raring to go! …Hey, c’mon. Don’t look at me like that. I’m not COMPLETELY shallow. I’m just saying the world’s full of beauty and it’s a fool who doesn’t enjoy it. Women are the gods’ most perfect creation. So I want as many as I can g— Er, are you leaving? But I was… No? We’re done? Okay, I think we’re done.

Valbar: My family and I used to live in a little village by the sea. It was my parents, my little sister and brother, my wife, our son, and me. I always was pretty strong, ever since I was a wee lad. Figured if I joined the army, that’d make life easier for the family. But then I wasn’t there to defend them when pirates raided. Damned ironic… …Hmm? Oh, thanks, but there’s no need to worry about me. Can’t spend the rest of my life standing around crying.

Saber: You said you didn’t have any proper family, yeah? Hmm… Well, I won’t pry. …Me? Yeah, I got a little sister. Ain’t seen her in forever, but I assume she’s fairing fine. She kinda looks like you, now that I think on it.

Deen: Need something? If not, why talk to me? You’re a strange one. …Huh? Why SHOULDN’T you talk to me? You really need an explanation? I don’t make small talk. Not with you, not with anyone. If we’re clear, move along.