@Opening 
The ambitions of those who slither in the dark are forever shattered with Shambhala's destruction. But in the process, Rhea is grievously injured. What fate awaits her, and who will bear the weigh of Fódlan on their shoulders?

@Dialogue
Rhea: Ugh…
Cyril: Hang in there, Lady Rhea
Seteth: She needs help! Hurry!
Manuela: That's a serious injury… It's a miracle that she's even alive right now. I'll do what I can, but…
Seteth: Five years ago, when this place fell an enormous white creature appeared on the battlefield. It was the Immaculate One... Rhea.
Byleth: She tried to save me…
Seteth: What? You already knew Rhea's true identity?
Byleth: Thinking back, I suppose so.
Seteth: I see. In the past the children of the goddess were all able to change their appearance, just like the Immaculate One. I lost that power long ago, but it seems Rhea has not.
Byleth: You're one of the children of the goddess?
Seteth: Is it not obvious? Flayn and I both are. We have protected Garreg Mach, and all of Fódlan, for a very long time. But now... the light of Rhea's life is on the verge of disappearing from this world. It is flickering... I do not know if she can be saved. Even if she is, I wonder if she will remain unchanged...
Flayn: Professor. Are you able to carry on Rhea's work. As the protector of Fódlan and as leader of the people who live here... You must defend the people. Guide them and teach them. Join their hearts and spread peace across the whole of the land.
Seteth: It is not as though you must become the archbishop. But Fódlan needs leadership it is up to you to govern this war-torn land.
Byleth: I...
Seteth: You need not reply right this moment. We will strive to heal Rhea as best we can.
Flayn: Perhaps it would help to seek counsel from our friends at the monastery about this matter.
Seteth: I agree. When your mind is made up, please speak with me. I would ask that you give me your decision in the presence of Rhea herself.

@Conversation 
Ferdinand: Well done, Professor. We have brought the war to a magnificent conclusion. The Empire, Alliance, and Kingdom are no more. Nor are there any factions that could blindside us and cause conflict. Now it falls to us to rule Fódlan, and bring about an era of peace and prosperity. You would be a fine choice for the first ruler of this new era. I sincerely believe that.
Byleth: Thank you. 
Ferdinand: So, your heart is already set on it! Excellent! In that case, congratulations are in order.
Byleth: I'm not sure.
Ferdinand: Well, if you are unsure, what does that say about everybody else's chances?
Ferdinand: I will follow you, Professor. I aim to be a great and respectable noble.



Linhardt: Congratulations on a job well done, Professor. I do hope Lady Rhea is well? Is it true what I heard? You will be taking over her post? Would that make you archbishop? Or higher still? Am I in the company of the future ruler of Fódlan?
Byleth: Either would be a hassle. 
Linhardt: I agree! Imagine all that responsibility. Until now, you've always fought with all of us by your side. Bring ruler would be a much lonelier job, though I am certain you would excel.
Byleth: The latter. I will rule over Fódlan.
Linhardt: So you've already decided... Such proactive thinking is the hallmark of a good ruler.
Linhardt: Me? I have no interest in a leadership role. I'm happy to spend the rest of my days studying...and napping.



Caspar: All... RIGHT! We did it, Professor! We really gave it to 'em out there! With all the fighting and hardships, I don't know how we did it... But I'm glad we made it through together!
Byleth: Me too. 
Caspar: Now all we gotta do is make you the new ruler! That's gonna be a fun coronation!
Byleth: It was a lot to push through.
Caspar: Sorry if I made your life more difficult! None of that matters anymore though, right? Now all we gotta do is make you the new ruler! That's gonna be a fun coronation!

Bernadetta: Phew... It's all over, Professor. Though I am worried about Lady Rhea... But still, Fódlan is united, and those terrible people lurking in the dark have finally been destroyed. Looks like it's the dawn of a wonderful new era...of blissful seclusion for Bernie!
Byleth: That won't do.
Bernadetta: Wh-what? Why not?! Hey, that better not be your first official decree! You're going to ask for my help again, aren't you? Oh, why?
Byleth: Suit yourself. 
Bernadetta: Woo-hoo! You finally did it, Bernie! Now take your reward of eternal peace and quiet!



Dorothea: Finally! An end to the fighting. Have you ever felt happier? I've worried that I might not live to see this day, but here we are, and everything is going to be OK, isn't it? Huh, my heart feels like it's ready to burst. I'm so full of happiness, yet I feel a sense of loss too...
Byleth: We did lose a lot.
Dorothea: Yes, we certainly did. But we managed to keep a great many things safe, as well.
Byleth: We protected more than we lost. 
Dorothea: I agree. I suppose if I think of those who are gone as the people who ensured our freedom...it hurts less.
Dorothea: Please do what you can to keep the peace, so we never have to face such awful times again.



Petra: War has been ended. I will now be returning to Brigid. I hope in the new Fódlan, Brigid can be accepted with friendship. When my professor becomes the leader, I think that will have a possibility. Please, choose well.
Byleth: Same to you. 
Petra: Yes. Now I must be packing.
Byleth: I'm not sure yet...
Petra: Is that the truth? I will be waiting for your decision. I will be packing while you are thinking.



Felix: It's over. What will you do? I heard you intend to lead.
Byleth: I'm not sure.
Felix: You shouldn't need that long to decide. Make up your mind.
Byleth: I'm more interested in what you'll do. 
Felix: Well, if you do choose to lead, I might like to work for you. But first, I'll go back to the old Faerghus territory. Where my father and my old friends once lived. I need to pay respects, put flowers on their graves.



Ashe: Well, it took a long while for us to get here, but we did it. The war is finally over. We've been through a lot together, haven't we? Let me just say, it's truly been an honor.
Byleth: The same to you.
Ashe: I'm flattered to hear you say do.
Byleth: Oh, cut it out.
Ashe: Hey, come on, I mean it! There's nothing to be embarrassed about!
Ashe: For whatever it's worth, I think you'd make a great monarch, and I'd support you every step of the way.



Sylvain: Ah, yow! She didn't have to slap me that hard. Oh, Professor, it's you. What's up? Need something?
Byleth: Lover's quarrel again?
Sylvain: I dunno if I'd call us lovers, exactly. Not yet anyway. It's was just a dinner invite.
Byleth: Don't need anything, but... 
Sylvain: Heh, you worried I might cause trouble again? Nah, I just invited a girl out to dinner.
Sylvain: All fighting and no loving makes Sylvain a rusty boy. Well, I can get back in practice now. Peacetime is the best for love--nobody dying, nobody getting hurt...except me, apparently. If you're gonna be the ruler, you need to keep the peace going so I can catch up on my love life.



Mercedes: I heard a rumor that you're going to take over for Lady Rhea!
Byleth: It hasn't been decided.
Mercedes: Oh, so the rumor was really true? I hope you accept. I don't think there's anyone else who could do it.
Byleth: That's the plan. 
Mercedes: So it's already been decided? That's very admirable of you, Professor.
Mercedes: You have nothing to worry about. We're here to help you if you need anything at all! We'll support you no matter what path you choose to follow!



Annette: Is Lady Rhea OK? She was quite weakened to start, and then she took all those heavy injuries... I don't want to imagine it, but what will happen if Lady Rhea passes away like this?
Byleth: We'll cross that bridge if we come to it.
Annette: I suppose you're right.
Byleth: I'm sure she'll be fine. 
Annette: Yes. I'm praying every day that she'll get well as soon as possible.
Annette: Anyhow... You're going to be the ruler, Professor? It's so strange to think of, for some reason!



Ingrid: Can it really be? Are we truly at peace? To think that my days will not be spent debating war tactics and preparing for battles. It doesn't quite feel real. Now that we are finally at peace, I'm not quite sure what to do with myself.
Byleth: Just take it easy.
Ingrid: That sounds...challenging for how easy it must actually be.
Byleth: Maybe you should think about the future now. 
Ingrid: Thinking of the future has never been my forte.
Ingrid: As long as I have a routine in place for myself, I can find contentment.



Lorenz: The day is ours, Professor. And this victory will ensure our names are immortalized in history. Or perhaps this is but the opening chapter in the tale they will write of our glory. After all, if you are to rule this reunited land, surely there is bound to be a place for me at your side?
Byleth: Absolutely. 
Lorenz: I read your mind, didn't I? Fear not! I will not fail to rise to the occasion!
Byleth: Nothing's decided yet.
Lorenz: Is that so? It seems to me that everyone has already assumed you would take the position.
Lorenz: Regardless, your decision will have an impact on my future, so be sure to make it a good one!



Raphael: Hey, Professor! I was just thinking I might go train. I know the war's over, but that doesn't mean I can stop working my muscles!
Byleth: That makes sense. 
Raphael: I'm glad you see it my way! I always knew you were a smart one!
Byleth: You should work on other things too.
Raphael: Really? I wouldn't know where to start, but...
Raphael: There's no harm in keeping up with my training!



Ignatz: After all that's happened to Lady Rhea, all of the stuff with Solon and the others, and everything that's happened with you, Professor... There's still a lot I don't understand. Please teach me, Professor--everything you know, everything you've learned.
Byleth: OK. 
Ignatz: Thank you, oh thank you!
Byleth: If I get the chance...
Ignatz: If it's at all possible, I hope you'll speak about it not just to me, but to everyone else as well. I think everyone should know what happened here. If we're going to build a new, united Fódlan...that's absolutely crucial.



Lysithea: Those who slither in the dark will never harm anyone again. They're finally done for. Thank you, Professor. Finally, I feel some vindication for what I've gone through.
Byleth: No, thank you, Lysithea. 
Lysithea: Ah, Professor. Ever the modest one. I do like that aspect of you.
Byleth: Keep up the good work.
Lysithea: Uh, sure thing.
Lysithea: As long as I'm of use here, I'm happy to stick around, Professor.



Marianne: And with that, we can finally enjoy a time of peace. I'm honored to have fought by your side. Even if you haven't made plans yet, I know you'll do your best, whatever your future may hold.
Byleth: You've grown much stronger.
Marianne: If true, that's all thanks to you and our allies.
Byleth: You've become quite the optimist. 
Marianne: I never would've dreamed my heart could have grown this way.
Marianne: Please let me know if there's anything more I can do.



Hilda: Hey, Professor! The war is finally, really, definitely over now, right? We're not gonna find out there was some evil shadowy figure hiding behind the subterranean guys, are we?
Byleth: Who knows.
Hilda: Well, whatever. No matter what comes, I know we can triumph in the end!
Byleth: I don't think so. 
Hilda: Ah, that's good! Though to be honest, there's not much that would surprise me at this point...
Hilda: I feel invincible! A nice perk of being your student, don't you think?



Leonie: Well, we both made it. And we avenged Jeralt too. Can't say it gets any better than that. You've got a lot of work ahead of you, I hear. People want you to govern, don't they?
Byleth: It's a hassle.
Leonie: Yeah. Sadly, this isn't the kind of burden I can take off your hands.
Byleth: It's a dilemma.
Leonie: Well, at the end of the day, it's your decision. Just take your time. Think it through.
Leonie: You've got to consider it carefully, so you don't have any regrets. Whatever you choose, though, just know that I'm here for you.

Alois: We did it, Captain!

Leonie: Make sure you've got no regrets.

Alois: At last, the day is upon us. The captain would be pleased. Don't you think, Leonie?
Leonie: Definitely. And he'd be proud of the professor too.
Alois: It seems like our efforts have been rewarded. It was certainly a long, difficult struggle to get here.
Leonie: It was. Oh, Jeralt... We worked so hard for this.
Byleth: Uh, hello?
Alois: Whaaaaaah!
Leonie: Aaah! How long have you been standing there?!
Alois: Er, ahem. Whether or not you choose to succeed Lady Rhea, we will forever be by your side.
Leonie: Yeah. We'll be here no matter what you decide. But make sure you think it through. You don't want to have any regrets.



Seteth: Well? Is your mind made up?
Byleth: No.
Seteth: I understand. Just know that we are applying all our power right now toward healing Rhea. You should take this opportunity to speak with everyone. I am certain it will do you good.
Byleth: Yes



Flayn: I have faith in Lady Rhea's convalescence, but even so, what she needs now is rest. And while she is recovering, somebody must watch over Fódlan. There is no one more fit to wear such a mantle than you, Professor. That is what I believe. I do not doubt the others feel the same.



Hanneman: Shambhala... An underground city with an entirely different lineage than the goddess? Strange phenomena, driven by a source totally alien to the Crests that we understand. Most unsettling! Could it be magic? Some manner of technology? I would like to know the truth of it all. Very much so. I want to know their history, their knowledge. Why do you suppose they chose this place to occupy?
Byleth: Well, I don't know.
Hanneman: No, I suppose you wouldn't... It seems we will have to excavate Shambhala to know more. Although, I heard you will be the Ruler here? Should I ask your permission to proceed with the dig?



Manuela: Life can be tough, you know? But if you've got your friends to help you through, it can be a lot easier. Maybe you butt heads sometimes...but that's OK. That's how you build bonds, right? And I've got friends, Professor. Plenty of those. It's true love that seems to have passed me by.
Byleth: You should relax.
Manuela: Relax? I'm relaxed.
Byleth: There's still hope. 
Manuela: But where is my true love to be found? Where is my ray of hope?
Byleth: Time to give up?
Manuela: Yeah… I'm starting to figure that's the most realistic option.
Manuela: At this point, I'm just hoping you stay single too. Then at least we can share each other's misery!



Alois: Jeralt... We've done it. We've finally brought this creaky old ship ashore. The fight was long and bitter, but finally...I can lay down my burden.
Byleth: Uh, hello?
Alois: Whaaaaah! It's you! Don't creep up like a ghost. Next time, announce yourself. Er, ahem. Whether or not you choose to succeed Lady Rhea, I will forever be by your side. You should live your life however you want. That's what the captain would say, I think.



Catherine: Lady Rhea stopped the forces that threatened to destroy Fódlan. She's trying to realize her own dream of peace. Isn't that enough? Can't you let her rest? If you're the only person who's fit to replace her, you should just do it. I'm sure Lady Rhea wishes for that too, right? I can't think of anyone who's more well suited to the job.



Shamir: The war's finally over... I have to admit, even I got a little emotional. Rhea's condition doesn't look good. There's nothing to do now but wait. More importantly, are you serious about becoming Fódlan's new ruler?
Byleth: I'm not sure. 
Shamir: It's pretty sudden. Either way, do what you think is best.
Byleth: I am.
Shamir: You made up your mind pretty quickly. Either way, do what you think is best.



Cyril: Professor, do you figure Lady Rhea will be OK? She will, won't she? I don't care one bit who'll succeed Lady Rhea, 'cause nobody's gonna need to. She's gonna be happy and healthy again. You'll see.



Anna: I can tell that things will settle down soon enough. Gotta get back to slinging wares and making moolah! And hopefully no more messes to spoil it after this...

Gatekeeper: Greetings, Professor! Nothing to report! Say, how is the archbishop faring? The soldiers and citizens are all concerned! Just when we thought peace had finally arrived... What's to become of Fódlan?

@Intro 
Rhea: Sweet child... You have finally come... I am so happy. It does my heart well to see you here, safe and sound.
Seteth: Have you made your decision, professor? Thankfully, Rhea has survived her trying ordeal. However... There is no telling how much longer her light will continue to shine.
Flayn: Professor, have you decided? Will you become the next ruler of Fódlan?
Byleth: ...
Rhea: Before I hear your answer, I shall fulfill the promise I made to you. You will know the truth about your identity... I will hold nothing back. I... created you. And within you is the crest stone of the progenitor god... I hid the crest stone within your heart in order to revive her. Sweet child... I am sorry. I wanted to see her... see my mother... even if it meant doing that which is forbidden.
Byleth: What does it all mean?
Rhea: I thought that I could regain all I had lost, if only I could revive my mother... And so I tried to bring her back by creating a body, and then burying a crest stone within it. A young woman I created... my twelfth try after much heartache... was a failure. She grew up lacking the conscience of the progenitor God and fell in love with the captain of the Knights of Seiros. In time, she became pregnant... but she and the child were not able to survive the birth. The child she bore was not breathing, and she herself was in grave danger. The new mother pleaded with me to take the crest stone of the progenitor god from her own body and place it within the baby. If I had done nothing, both mother and child would have died. And so I granted her final wish. As she had hoped, the baby started breathing again... The new life was saved. Your life, sweet child.
Byleth: ...
Rhea: Well before that, I had saved Jeralt's life using the power of my blood. That means you are the child of a mother born of the progenitor God's crest stone and a father who carried my own blood. I knew, deep in my heart, that you would be capable of housing the conscience of the progenitor god. I was right... And yet, she merely gifted her power to you and then disappeared once more. My dearest wish did not come true… but here you are. You alone wield the power of the progenitor God. And now, I must ask you to use that power to save this world. You must...

Rhea: What... No... Arrgh!
Seteth: Rhea?! Rhea!
Flayn: What is wrong? Please calm yourself, Rhea!
Rhea: GRAAARGH!
Seteth: Is the power of the crest taking over her body? Why is this happening?!
Knight of Seiros: Seteth! It's terrible! White beasts have appeared all over Garreg Mach! It's hard to believe, but there have been reports that the priests and Knights have been changing form.
Seteth: White beasts... Are they the ones Rhea shared her blood and stones with?
Church Soldier: Seteth! Demonic beasts are heading this way!
Seteth: They are after Rhea... Professor, our situation is dire. If we do nothing, Fódlan will be destroyed by a rampaging Immaculate One and these children of hers. There is only one way to stop this. We... we must... Damn it! We have no choice but to kill the Immaculate One... to kill Rhea!

@Opening 
Though showing brief signs of recovery, even Rhea's strength has its limits. Having changed form to The Immaculate One, she is unable to control her power. As if in Response, priests and knights who are directly related to Rhea by blood change into White Beasts themselves. Facing this unexpected threat, the resistance army prepares for its final battle to save Fódlan.

With Shambhala in ruins, the five-year war is finally at an end and a new age of peace has arrived. Not long for this world, Rhea wishes to discuss Fódlan's future with you/you. But all is not well...

@Battle 
Seteth: It is kept secret, but there is a certain rite that all initiates to high office in the church must undergo. In this rite, one pledges to serve the goddess and in return, receives a Crest Stone fragment and blood. The ones who have transformed alongside Rhea just now are the ones who have accepted those gifts. They will shield Rhea--the Immaculate One, I should say--with their very lives. But if we do not strike her down, Fódlan will have no future. To arms!

Seteth: Surrounded already, it seems. The White Beasts are those in whom Rhea's blood flows strongest. Until we get rid of them, we will not be able to so much as touch Rhea.
Caspar: Damn. After all that's happened...why do we have to kill Lady Rhea?

Bernadetta: Isn't the fighting already over?! Why do we have to do this to Lady Rhea?!

Ferdinand: The Immaculate One. We cannot afford to lose here, whoever our foe may be!

Seteth: Stop! Any damage to the Immaculate One will only be transferred to those beasts.
Petra: It is seeming that my understanding of Fódlan tradition is...insufficient. What is happening?
Seteth: It is too dangerous to approach her now. Capture the southern stronghold first to seal the beasts away!

Seteth: They're coming one by one from the southern stronghold. If we do not capture it, there will be more.

Seteth: Let us turn our attention to the Immaculate One.
Dorothea: This is it. The final battle.
The Immaculate One: Graaaargh!

Seteth: Rhea?! Not even I have seen this form!
Linhardt: Well, that's something, isn't it? A shame we must kill her. Consider the research potential...

@Boss 
%Seteth,The Immaculate One
Seteth: I will inherit the pride of Nabatea. Rest in peace by Sothis's side!

%Flayn,The Immaculate One
Flayn: Rhea... How tragic. But there is no time to waste. She must be stopped!

%Catherine,The Immaculate One
Catherine: Lady Rhea... With my sword, I will put an end to your suffering.

%Cyril,The Immaculate One
Cyril: This is me, paying ya back. No matter what, I'll stop Lady Rhea!

@End 
Seteth: Rhea! Please!

@Cutscene 
Rhea: You're here, Mother...

@Narration 
A rising flame was alight as the flow of time carved a new history for Fódlan. Rhea's wild rampage was put to an end, averting what could have the greatest crisis in the history of Fódlan After five and a half years of war, a new age was set to begin. The Empire, Kingdom, and Alliance—all political structures that had once shaped the continent—were gone. A unified nation began to take shape under the watchful eye of the Church of Seiros. The church's new leader became a champion of the people, working tirelessly to help them overcome the horrors of war and to carve a path towards reconstruction. Just as Saint Seiros tended to those who suffered in wars of the past, Fódlan's new ruler embraced their role as mother of all life and arbiter of every soul.
/***EOF***/
@Opening 
The resistance army successfully takes Fort Merceus. Their victory celebrations are cut short, however, when javelins of light pierce the sky and destroy much of the fort. With nowhere else to go, the resistance army withdraws to Garreg Mach. Under the guise of surrender, they secretly prepare for a surprise attack on the Imperial capital.

@Dialogue 
Seteth: It seems the preparations for our invasion of Enbarr are advancing smoothly. All has been laid out so we can move swiftly to the necessary locations. Until the time comes, please try to keep your spirits up.
Byleth: I understand.
Seteth: There is something else... I have heard that Rhea is potentially being held captive in the capital. The information could not be confirmed, nor even properly sourced, but even still... We cannot ignore the possibility. Please bear that in mind.
Byleth: If it's true, we'll find her.
Seteth: Yes. We must not let anything get in the way of rescuing her.
Byleth: I don't believe it.
Seteth: Do not say that. To receive any information at all is surely a boon. If it is true, we must not let anything let in the way of rescuing her.


Flayn: We're finally heading to Enbarr. The capital city of the Empire... So many memories there...
Caspar: Oh yeah? So you've been there before?
Flayn: Oh! Um. Yes. Though it was a very long time ago.
Caspar: A very long time? You must have been really young. I'm surprised you remember.
Dorothea: The main stage of the Mittelfrank Opera Company is in the capital... I hope no one from the opera gets swept up in the coming chaos...
Linhardt: There are many buildings straight out of the history books in Enbarr. I hope they remain unharmed...
Dorothea: You're worried about the buildings? What about the people? You're an odd one, Lin.
Linhardt: I am also worried about the people. I'm sure my father is in a palace in the capital.
Flayn: Many people reside in Enbarr, so we must take care to avoid needless casualties.
Bernadetta: I don't think Edelgard cares much for avoiding casualties, so that's probably impossible. I bet we'll be fighting until one side or the other is completely destroyed.
Petra: Bernie, you should be staying away from thoughts like that. We will be defeating her with our full power. Our enemy has great strength, but we will not be losing!
Ferdinand: I could not agree more. Remember, even if our surprise attack works, a force even greater than all of our troops combined awaits us in the capital. Zero casualties is always the goal, but we must not underestimate the situation at hand.
Flayn: Still, we must not hold ourselves to the same twisted morality that she does. After all, we are here to stop her, not to follow her down her dark path. We all choose to fight back. We are all in this together!
Bernadetta: You're right, Flayn. We've got to try our hardest!
Dorothea: A different path from Edelgard...
Ferdinand: There is no stopping her. The only way to end this is to kill her.
Petra: Our choice... Flayn, your words are wonderful and full of bravery.
Caspar: Let's go! We can't lose!
Linhardt: The situation is dire...and so I will do what must be done.
Flayn: I am certain that if we can join our strength, we can win this battle without losing a single soul!

@Conversation 
Ferdinand: Professor. At last, the end is nigh. I love the Empire. Part of me wants it to survive. But I know that is not reasonable. The Empire's time has come. What we need now is a mighty leader who can rebuild Fódlan and rule it as a single nation. Nonetheless, it saddens me that we will not have an Adrestian emperor...



Linhardt: They used to call Enbarr the city of Seiros... To assault it, together with the knights, is surreal. If Seiros were alive today, I wonder what she might make of our war... In Enbarr, there was once a Southern Church, and apparently a bishop was dispatched to it. A hundred years ago, the Southern Church became entangled in an insurrection. Until five years ago, the Empire and the church maintained a certain distance from one another.



Caspar: It's such a relief that we've made it this far without having to fight my father.
Byleth: You'll have to face him at some point.
Caspar: Hey, don't try and scare me!
Byleth: It sounds like you're scared. 
Caspar: You bet I'm scared! The Imperial army hasn't lost a single battle with my father on the field!
Caspar: If he turns up as a reinforcement during the assault, we might lose. I better make peace with that.

Bernadetta: Professor! My, um, my mother might be in the city. I don't have many good memories of her if I'm being honest, but she's dearer to me than my father. If you happen to see her, please make sure she's not caught up in all the fighting. She's only a civil servant, so hopefully she takes a cue from her Bernie and stays inside.



Dorothea: The whole of the capital is going to be a battleground. The city has such a long heritage... Even so, perhaps it deserves to be reduced to ashes for once. But we can't let the commonfolk get hurt. We should try to confine the damage to the noble section of town.



Petra: Five years ago...Edelgard said a thing to me. Brigid is a vassal of the Empire. But she also said I always have the freedom to be choosing whether I am with or not with her. I will become the ruler of Brigid. So she said I must make my own path. So now, my path and her path will be colliding.



Felix: The Death Knight is no ordinary knight. I will prey upon him. I will quench my blade's thirst with his blood. His focus is on fighting you, I'm sure. But mine will be the last face he sees.



Ashe: Those things appeared as soon as we got ourselves set up in Fort Merceus.



Sylvain: So Enbarr, the capital of the Empire. It's finally time. I never thought I'd live this long. It's like any battle, really--stay calm, stay focused. Don't give in to the enemy or your own fear.
Byleth: You seem more serious than usual.
Sylvain: Hey, I'm always serious! When I'm chasing girls or preparing for battle, always serious. That's me...
Byleth: We'll get through this together. 
Sylvain: Striking down the Empire is my offering to His Highness. Heh, I left the Kingdom... What am I saying?



Mercedes: It's been so long since I've been to the Imperial capital. I used to go to the opera there with my mother and brother. I never thought my return would be like this...



Annette: Enbarr... Never in my wildest dreams did I imagine I'd be returning like this. Of course, most of the nobles in the Empire make their home in the capital. In the Kingdom, all nobles live in their own domains. So if the capital is attacked, it doesn't affect them directly. What will happen to the Imperial nobles when their capital becomes a battlefield?



Ingrid: Once this battle is over, what will become of Faerghus and Fódlan?
Byleth: Peace will reign. 
Ingrid: Peace you say? It sounds so...foreign, so unattainable. But maybe...just maybe.
Byleth: What would you like to see happen?
Ingrid: My hope is for a world of peace. A world in which this present turmoil is a thing of the past--the stuff of legends. I believe those who survive the atrocities of war have a duty to create a new, better world. So the sooner we can stamp out such turmoil, the better. We must win, Professor. There is no alternative here. I won't allow for anything else.



Lorenz: I have been to the Kingdom capital before, but never to the Imperial one. They say it is the biggest city in all Fódlan, so we will no doubt have many civilians to worry about. I hope we can preserve the city. If it is destroyed in the battle, the people will face hardship. I would say we should avoid the use of excessive force, but I suppose that hinges upon the Empire's terms of engagement.



Raphael: We're heading up to Enbarr next. I hope I make it back safe so I can tell my little sis about it! I hear they got a neat opera house there where Manuela used to perform. What was it called again?
Byleth: Mitreflanc Opera Company.
Raphael: Nah, that doesn't sound right!
Byleth: Mittelfrank Opera Company. 
Raphael: Ah, that's the one!

Raphael: Nah, that doesn't sound right!
Raphael: My little sis always goes on about how much she'd like to see them perform. I know we can't see a show, but do you think we can at least see the building?



Ignatz: We're about to put the finishing touches on this war. I wonder how Fódlan will look without the backdrop of death and destruction. I can't wait to see it. On the other hand, I'm terrified of what the future might hold. Who knows if I'll survive the assault on the capital?



Lysithea: Invading the capital and smashing the Empire. I wonder if doing so could really end this war. Care to share your thoughts, Professor?
Byleth: I think it'll end the war.
Lysithea: You say that with such confidence. I want to believe that it's true.
Byleth: I don't know. 
Lysithea: Perhaps you feel similarly to me. The whole mess puts me on edge.
Lysithea: Although for now, better to focus my efforts on the fight at hand.



Marianne: So, if we win the war...will you become the ruler of Fódlan?
Byleth: That might be the case. 
Byleth: I don't really know.
Marianne: You seem unsure, so I guess anything is possible. For what it's worth, I think you'd make a good ruler. You could bring peace to the land...



Hilda: Fighting in the capital? Ugh! And we're fighting against Edelgard! Double ugh! But with you leading us, Professor, I know we'll win. Yeah! Wahoo! Fighting! I'm a little scared, to be honest. I'm just shouting to relieve the tension, but I'll be fine.



Leonie: We're finally going to the capital. This will be my chance to avenge Captain Jeralt. Once we smash the Empire, I'm sure his soul will finally be able to rest in peace.
Byleth: I think you're right. 
Byleth: Who can say for sure?
Leonie: Monica killed Captain Jeralt for the Flame Emperor, and the Flame Emperor was Edelgard. I know that the future of all Fódlan rests on this battle. Nothing else is more important. But for me, this is personal. For Captain Jeralt's sake, I'm going to give it all I've got and more!



Seteth: Rhea will be somewhere in the city. I wonder if she can sense us coming. If we are able to save her, then I expect you will learn many secrets that have hitherto been kept from you. Are you prepared for that?
Byleth: I am. 
Seteth: Excellent
Byleth: I don't think I'm ready yet.
Seteth: That is unfortunate. Well, you must become ready.
Seteth: The battle will soon be upon us. Let us both be at our best for what is to come.



Flayn: I was born in Enbarr. My mother and father met in a church there. Not too long after, I was brought into the world. I do not understand how war can happen in such a precious place. It is most regrettable.



Hanneman: Enbarr's streets are paved with unhappy memories, Professor. I've avoided the darned place ever since I abandoned my nobility. Swore never to return. Now here we are. To return in this manner... Well, I can't say it is something I ever imagined.



Manuela: In the opera, actors came and went all the time. But the people behind the scenes would stay forever. I'll bet I'd know a few of them now, even after all these years. I wonder if they've left the capital. I certainly hope so...



Alois: Here we are, facing the final battle with the Empire. It's been a long, difficult struggle. We have to get Lady Rhea back! And we have to crush the Empire, in the name of Captain Jeralt. I don't know what comes next. But we can sort out those details later.



Catherine: Looks like we're nearing the end of this struggle. I'm sure Lady Rhea is on tenterhooks waiting for me to swoop in and rescue her.
Byleth: Probably 
Catherine: I was just kidding! Pay me no mind.
Byleth: I doubt it.
Catherine: Oof... You don't mince your words. Try being a bit more mindful of other people's feelings.
Catherine: Lady Rhea's not waiting for me, I know, no matter how much I might wish she were. She's waiting for you.



Shamir: Ten years ago, Dagda and Brigid attacked the Empire from the west. Their final target was the capital. But they were countered at a port town, long before they reached their destination. I guess our attempt has been more successful than theirs, all things considered.



Cyril: Whenever I think about how we'll be seeing Lady Rhea real soon, I get happy and really get cleaning! We'll get there for sure, right? We'll see her again?
Byleth: We'll meet her for sure. 
Byleth: We don't know for sure.
Cyril: I just gotta believe Lady Rhea is waiting for us in the capital... We just have to find her.

Anna: There's unrest everywhere these days. All of my fellow merchants seem to be endangered. I hope things go back to normal soon. People need more to smile about, aside from my great deals.



Gatekeeper: Greetings, Professor! Nothing to report! Momentum's really picking up for this final battle, huh? Even I'm starting to feel tense! ME! Enbarr's history goes back 1,400 years. That even predates the founding of the Empire. It's one of the sacred sites of the Seiros faith, so it's a pretty big deal. But hey, no need to worry about the monastery while you're fighting the final battle. I've got it covered! I'll defend it to my last!

@Opening 
The resistance army, having finished preparations for their surprise attack on the Imperial capital, departs Garreg Mach. Along the way, they join forces with ally soldiers who had already secretly entered Empire territory. Together, they storm the streets of Enbarr, giving the Imperial army no time to counterattack.

Vastly outnumbered by Imperial forces, it becomes clear that a surprise attack, followed by a short and decisive battle, is the only path to victory. With this in mind, you stealthily approach Enbarr, the Imperial Capital.

@Intro 
Seteth: There it is. The greatest city in all of Fódlan... Enbarr, the Imperial Capital. Deep within are the palace grounds, where the emperor resides. If Rhea is being kept here, she must be within the palace... We shall tear through the city streets, capture the palace, and kill Edelgard at last.
Shamir: If the enemy spots us, they'll call back any troops deployed in other areas. We have no leeway here.
Cyril: Lady Rhea, please be safe.
Seteth: Now, we must organize our reserve troops and invade Enbarr!

@Battle 
Seteth: It appears that Hubert and the Death Knight are in command of the Empire's forces in the city. We've not the time to deal with them one by one. Split up and take both on at once!

Imperial Soldier: It's here! The Crest of Flames banner! There! On the other side of the canal!
Hubert: Uninvited guests, I see. Heh. Let's ensure they receive a warm welcome. Ready the artillery. Prepare to attack. Rocks, arrows, magic--rain death upon the enemy until they are silent as the grave. Reinforcements will fly in shortly. Defend the heavy weapons until they arrive.


Hubert: Our first wave of reinforcements is here. It will not be long until the next.
Seteth: Their reinforcements just keep on coming. We need to secure the artillery. That will make it easier to deal with them.

Hubert: We have reinforcements coming in from another direction. Deploy them as soon as they arrive.

Flayn: That church... It looks familiar. I believe that is where my parents first met.

Seteth: Ah--that church. I've such memories of that place. From a time before I was Seteth.

Manuela: Has it really been so long since I was in that opera house? Couldn't have imagined any of this back then.

Dorothea: The battle is nearing the opera house. I hope everyone in the company is safe.

@End 
Seteth: We have finally made it. I am sure that Edelgard is hiding in the palace, awaiting our arrival...
Flayn: Who is that? Is that not Dedue?!
Dedue: I heard knights had arrived. I came here to find you.
Byleth: How long have you been in Enbarr?
Dedue: I arrived not long after the battle at Gronder Field. I am here to kill Edelgard.
Byleth: What are you doing in Enbarr
Dedue: I'm waiting for a chance to kill Edelgard. I have not yet been blessed with the opportunity.
Flayn: Will you now fight alongside us?
Dedue: We fight for different objectives. I swore to offer Edelgard's head to his Highness. But... Should I fail, I will have no choice but to entrust that mission to you. This is the information I have gathered during my time in hiding here. It includes details about the inside of the castle. There's more. The archbishop is being held in the palace. I do not know the exact location.
Seteth: Indeed! Just as we suspected!
Alois: It seems we chose wisely when we decided to fight against the Empire!
Dedue: I've done what I came here to do. Farewell.
Flayn: Wait a moment!

Flayn: He is gone. I believe we should make our way there as well!
/***EOF***/
@Opening 
The resistance army, having received reinforcements from House Daphnel in Ailell, is finally ready to unleash its invasion on the Imperial territories.

@Dialogue 
Seteth: The messenger we sent to Claude has returned. It seems he will be initiating the plan immediately. We will advance when House Riegan's forces move out. We will take the Great Bridge of Myrddin with minimal casualties, and in doing so, initiate all-out war with the Empire. We must prepare for battle, Professor.

@Conversation 

Byleth: Someday, we'll take it back. 
Ferdinand: Thank you, Professor. I will not give in. Not until I have restored my noble pride!
Byleth: Taking it back would be difficult.
Ferdinand: Yes, I know it would be difficult, but I will not give in!




Byleth: I'm sure they're not...
Linhardt: If I were in charge, it's what I would do.
Byleth: Probably. 
Linhardt: I knew it. War makes people crazy, huh?



Caspar: The Airmid River separates the Empire and Alliance. It's the largest river in Fódlan. Sometimes it'll flood when there's lots of rain, but... At least the land gets some extra water!


Byleth: Sounds like you're learning.
Byleth: Isn't that a little pessimistic? 


Byleth: No, it's not OK.
Dorothea: Makes sense. A commander running away would be terrible for morale.
Byleth: I wouldn't blame you. 
Dorothea: Really? If something happens, will you keep me safe?



Petra: If we can suppress this Myrddin, we can invade into the Empire, Right? I was in the Empire. Now I will be an enemy... I am having strange feelings. It is with ease that an ally turns into an enemy...



Felix: We have the Empire and Alliance situations under control. The problem is Faerghus. The eastern lords have joined forces and are warring with the Dukedom. But I've heard nothing about that conflict as of late. It's strange. I haven't heard much from my father either. I can't help but find this silence unsettling...



Ashe: It's thanks to you that I'm here now. I owe you, Professor. You saved my life. I swear I'll do all I can to repay that debt.



Sylvain: I had an encounter with Lord Gwendal... How many years ago was it? Back before the academy, I met this girl who I fell madly in love with...and her dad tried to kill me. I suppose he just tried to scare me, but I was sure I was gonna die. Oh yeah, her dad? Lord Gwendal. Crazy, right? I never thought I'd seriously be trying to kill the guy in battle. I kind of don't know how to make sense of it.



Mercedes: Lady Rhea is in the Empire, isn't she? We should hurry up and find her. So many people in the monastery and nearby towns are worried... I want to ease their minds as soon as possible, Professor. Let's work together to find her!



Annette: Next we face the Great Bridge of Myrddin... We actually crossed it a long time ago. Do you remember? It was five whole years ago!
Byleth: During the Battle of the Eagle and Lion? 
Annette: It seems like so long ago, doesn't it? It's odd how fast time flies...
Byleth: When we went to Remire Village?
Annette: What are you talking about, Professor? It was on the way to the Battle of the Eagle and Lion!
Annette: Everyone was still friends then. After the fighting, we all ate together without splitting into our separate houses. I often wish we could go back to those peaceful days...



Ingrid: So, that was Judith. Just as I'd heard of her, she was an upstanding person. The same Daphnel blood runs through my veins, and yet I feel as though I am nothing like her. I am but a phantom of what could be...
Byleth: You're actually quite alike. 
Ingrid: You think so? Wow, thank you!
Byleth: True, you do differ.
Ingrid: If only I could be even half of who she is.



Raphael: Thanks to all that food from Judith, I'm full for once! I've got so much energy! Let me at that Great Bridge of Myrddin! I'll bust it down myself! Oh, but then how do we cross?



Ignatz: The Great Bridge of Myrddin isn't just a bridge, It has the features of a fortress. I believe it was built for military purposes by the first leader of the Adrestian Empire. In other words, it's even older than the monastery. So if we occupy the Great Bridge, we'll have to search it from top to bottom.



Lysithea: I'm sure you know this already, but House Ordelia is aligned with the Empire. They face the Empire from across the river, similar to the Gloucesters. Even so, I refuse to yield to the Empire a second time. The Empire did unthinkable things to my family. And to me. The only option here is winning. Professor, you must promise we will overcome the Empire.



Marianne: Legend says that pillars of light fell and ravaged Ailell. I was reminded of that when I saw it... Up, Professor? Do you think those legends are true?
Byleth: It's likely.
Marianne: I think so too. I don't know if the goddess really destroyed the valley out of anger, but...
Byleth: Yes, and it'll likely happen again. 
Marianne: Oh! I suppose you may be right. There's no way to be sure it won't...
Marianne: There are still so many things we don't understand in this world.



Hilda: It looks like people are slowly starting to come back to the town. I guess they feel safe now that you and the Knights of Seiros have returned. Peddlers have become more common too, so there'll be food and supplies available. After being run-down for all those years, it's really becoming livable again!



Leonie: Things would have gotten a lot more interesting if Judith had joined us. I only spoke to her briefly, but I really liked her. I hope someday I can be as strong, kind, and levelheaded as her.



Seteth: If Rhea really is in the Empire, then we must defeat the Imperial army by any means necessary. The people at large are just as concerned for Rhea's safety as we are. The sooner we can settle all our unease, the better.



Flayn: Judith is a wonderful person. So strong and confident, as well. Looking upon her, I was sharply reminded of my mother.
Byleth: Did she look similar?
Flayn: Not in the slightest. Rather, it is her way of being--her demeanor. Brilliantly bright and positive, like a warm ray of light.
Byleth: Did she act similar? 
Flayn: Very much so! Both brilliantly bright and positive, like a warm ray of light.
Flayn: I...lost my mother, long ago. I miss her desperately.



Hanneman: The battle at Ailell was a tactical marvel. You grow stronger with each passing day. Where does you talent end and your Crest's power begin? Are they one and the same, I wonder? Most intriguing. Yet it is quite difficult to draw useful conclusions, given the situation. It is quite unfortunate I did not achieve my research goals before the war broke out. So much unknown. Now, I fear I will not have those answers even by conflict's end. So very frustrating.



Manuela: Oh, hello there, Professor. Did you need something from me? It doesn't look like you're wounded or anything. You just looking for...someone to talk to?
Byleth: Yes. 
Manuela: I thought so. Well, I'm here for you! Making you feel better is my top priority.
Byleth: No.
Manuela: Come on now, you don't have to be shy. Helping you feel better is important to me.
Manuela: Whether it's physical pain or worries of the heart, you can come to me for anything, Professor.



Alois: So, Lady Rhea was in the Empire all this time. Glad as I am that Judith told us, I wish we had known this five years ago. We spent all that time spread out over Fódlan, searching for the archbishop and you. It was a mistake to abandon the monastery, to leave it in ruins. Now we're paying for that mistake.



Catherine: I'd heard of the Hero of Daphnel, but that was the first time I've met her in person. She's the head of a prestigious noble family? Just like Claude. The Alliance nobility is so...odd.
Byleth: You don't think she acts like a noble?
Byleth: Is it different in the Kingdom and Empire? 
Catherine: Kind of, but I don't mean that in a bad way. You won't find such big-hearted nobles elsewhere. Plus, Judith can drink with the best of'em! A woman after my own heart.



Shamir: Five years ago, when the Imperial army attacked Garreg Mach, they moved with incredible speed. But in the middle of all that chaos, she still had operatives watching. The Hero of Daphnel's spy network is impressive. She shouldn't be taken lightly.



Cyril: Is it true Lady Rhea was dragged off by the Imperial army? I heard that was true. Why'd they take Lady Rhea? Professor...they didn't take her to kill her, did they?
Byleth: I don't think so.
Cyril: That's good. We just gotta beat the Imperial army and get her back, right?
Byleth: They probably haven't killed her.
Cyril: Yeah, good point. If they did, we'd have heard about it by now.
Cyril: You gotta help her, Professor. I'm begging ya.



Anna: There's unrest everywhere these days. All of my fellow merchants seem to be endangered. I hope things go back to normal soon. People need more to smile about, aside from my great deals.



Gatekeeper: Greetings, Professor! Nothing to report! Oh! I heard what happened at Ailell. I can't believe Imperial spies have been lurking in Garreg Mach! Under my watch! But I'll make sure no more of 'em get in, trust me!

@Intro 
Seteth: This is the Great Bridge of Myrddin, one of the bridges that cuts across the Airmid River between the Empire and the Alliance. Its defenses have been fortified since I last was here. It seems the enemy is sufficiently prepared.
Byleth: Let's end this quickly. 
Manuela: That's the idea, Professor. Let's make this quick and painless. So much that it's over before they even know it's started.
Byleth: Steady now. 
Hanneman: If they are fully equipped, we must prepare ourselves for anything. We must be ready to change our approach in an instant.
Seteth: Yes, that is most sound. I do not distrust Claude, but there is no guarantee that the other Alliance lords will not move against us. Onward, with caution.
Ferdinand: After we cross the Great Bridge, the greatest plains in Fódlan will be before us. You do remember, do you not? I speak of Gronder Field, where we fought the Battle of the Eagle and Lion.
Caspar: The ones defending the Great Bridge... It isn't my father or brother, is it? I really want to finish this battle without seeing them. Especially my father...
Linhardt: Yes, I hear your father can fell a bear without even a weapon in hand. When we run into him, I'll be sure to let you take the lead. Family matters, and all.
Caspar: That's not funny, you jerk!
Petra: Should we be burning the signal of uprising?
Dorothea: There's no need for that, Petra. Smoke or no smoke, they'll get the idea. Losing the bridge should be a pretty big clue.
Bernadetta: Oh no! I can't believe we're actually going to invade! If Edelgard...gets angry... Oh, I get nervous just picturing it! Stop that, imagination! Oh, and if she destroys the monastery with her army, we're all gonna die!
Seteth: The hour of questioning has long since passed. I assure you, whatever happens, this will not end as it did five years ago. Back then, the Empire was able to focus its entire army on Garreg Mach. Now their front lines are stretched thin along their borders with both the Kingdom and the Alliance. Their allies have grown in number, but so have their enemies. They should not have too many soldiers they can readily send our way. Now then, let us set forth! This shall be the first step in ending the chaos that has engulfed this realm!

@Opening 
Sights set on Enbarr, the resistance army avoids the Oghma Mountains, choosing instead to move south along the eastern route that passes through the Alliance. To make it safely through the territory of House Gloucester - supporters of the Empire - the army seeks help from the head of House Riegan, Claude. Claude vows to draw away House Gloucester's troops so that the resistance army can advance to the Airmid River - a dividing line between the Alliance and the Empire.

After fending off the Empire, your forces decide it's time to advance. But first, you must capture the Great Bridge of Myrddin, a strategic crossing point over the Airmid River, which borders the Alliance and the Empire.

@Battle 
Ladislava: That symbol... It's an enemy raid! Stay calm and face them head-on. Send a messenger to Acheron immediately! If we're quick, we might be able to pull off a pincer attack!
Seteth: That is Ladislava. She has, of late, made quite a name for herself as a general. Be on your guard.

Seteth: We will control this fortress if we can eliminate all the enemies within it.
Imperial Soldier: Enemies approaching! Get the soldiers standing by to join the fight! We may need to hurry up preparations of the ballista too. Protect the fortress!


Imperial Soldier: You think we'll let you take this bridge form us
Seteth: It appears enemy soldiers are stationed in the fortress. More will come. Stay on your guard!

Lorenz: I, Lorenz Hellman Gloucester, have arrived to join the battle in my father's stead! 
Alliance General: We'll ally ourselves with the Imperial soldiers too! 
Ladislava: Thanks for making your way here. Annihilate the enemy with the rest of them!


Ladislava: Acheron! Now's the time to show your loyalty to the Empire! Attack the enemy from behind!
Acheron: I've got to make her name known to Her Majesty through distinguished service.
Seteth: That is Acheron, a minor Alliance noble. If he has allied with the Empire, then we must destroy him.

@End 
Seteth: Goddess, please forgive the sins of the enemy leaders and the brave soldiers who followed their orders.

Seteth: Somehow we managed to capture the Great Bridge of Myrddin. To see the Imperial Army hold its ground until every last soldier fell... That is true dedication. It is clear that Edelgard is not some cruel emperor who holds her people in a vice-like grip. There is something more driving our foes. From here on out, our journey will not be an easy one...

Church Soldier: Excuse me, sir! Gilbert is here!
Seteth: Gilbert?! What was he doing all this time? We had better go and meet with him.



Gilbert: So you've captured the Great Bridge of Myrddin. I'm impressed you were able to break through their defenses.
Seteth: Save your praise, Gilbert. Let's get to the heart of the matter. Why are you here? Why now?
Gilbert: I am once again in the service of Dimitri. He was in hiding in Fraldarius territory, where he was biding his time for a counteroffensive.
Seteth: Dimitri is alive?!
Gilbert: Yes. He was to be executed in Fhirdiad, but Dedue stepped forward to rescue him. I am here today by command of Dimitri himself. We realize that our enemies are the same...and that it may be advantageous to join forces.
Seteth: I see. I shall hear you out.
Gilbert: We are preparing to advance against the Empire. Will you join us as we march toward the Imperial capital? If that is too much to ask, then at least allow us to freely cross the Great Bridge of Myrddin.
Byleth: We will join you.
Seteth: Hold a moment. We have just finished a fierce battle, and our forces are few.
Byleth: You may cross freely.
Seteth: Agreed. We have just finished a fierce battle, and our forces are few.
Seteth: To march straight for the main body of the Imperial army and challenge them? It is too soon. I am happy yo allow you safe passage over the bridge, but to lend our aid asks too much of us. Is that not so? If you would be willing to wait a few months, we might be able to offer something more.
Gilbert: I am afraid His Highness is not able to stop his advance...
Seteth: If that is the case, I am afraid we cannot join you. Please, send our regards to Dimitri.
Gilbert: I understand. It's unfortunate that we were not able to secure the help of the Knights of Seiros. Still, I'm grateful that we can cross the Great Bridge of Myrddin safely. Thank you for that. This will be a fight to the death. It is highly likely that we will meet our end. I wish you both the best of luck in the battles ahead.
Seteth: And may the goddess protect you as well.
/***EOF***/
@Opening 
Following Edelgard's defeat and Rhea's rescue, the resistance army discovers the existence of another adversary-a group operating behind the scenes within the Empire.To prevent disaster from befalling Fódlan, the resistance army heads for Shambhala, the enemy's stronghold.

@Dialogue 
Seteth: The Empire has been defeated, and we have rescued Rhea. But still, the flames of war burn on. We journey to Shambhala, where those who slither in the dark reside.
Flayn: We know nothing of the place or what we can expect to find there.
Seteth: What Flayn says is true. If we are to prevail, we must be prepared for any eventuality before we advance.
Rhea: I will accompany you.
Seteth: What?! No! That would be far too dangerous! Your long confinement weakened you greatly, did it not?
Rhea: Those people have opposed us since ancient times. I wish to learn the truth about them for myself.
Seteth: I...I understand. I will not stop you, but please take care not to overexert yourself.
Bernadetta: What?! But she's been hiding away so long! She shouldn't just up and go somewhere scary. Trust me, it's a bad idea!
Linhardt: Bernadetta, "hiding away" seems a poor description for someone who was imprisoned.
Ferdinand: We must be careful not to put undue stress on Lady Rhea.
Caspar: If the going gets tough, we'll have to carry her on our backs and make a run for it!
Dorothea: You think you can carry her? Um, maybe someone else should do that part...
Petra: No matter what enemies are appearing, we will be protecting her. We will be winning!
Flayn: If we work together, I am certain all will be well...
Seteth: The ones we are soon to face have eluded us for a long time. There is much to fear... We must all proceed with utmost caution, lest we fall prey to one of their traps.

@Conversation 
Ferdinand: The history of the Empire spans 1185 years. And just like that, it ends. But the Hresvelg legacy could live on... When Edelgard assumed power, there were no other rightful heirs. She said that whoever takes the throne next should do so by the virtue of merit, not blood. And she truly meant what she said. At any rate... I feel that a huge hole has opened up in my heart. Who knows if it can ever be filled?



Linhardt: As history proves, everything comes to an end eventually. I knew that all along, but it still came as a surprise. Those who slither in the dark... It's all so fascinating and strange. They must certainly have a long history of their own. And when they fall, that will come quickly too. Don't you think? Heh, that almost sounded like a prophecy there. Am I spooking you yet?



Caspar: He's dead... My father's dead... I'm OK though. Really. I was ready for it. He was a general in the Imperial army, after all. Minister of Military Affairs... He gave his own life so the Empire's soldiers wouldn't have to lose theirs. That's a fight that only he could take on. He was such a tough guy. I fought side by side with you this whole time. But did I ever get any stronger? Will I ever be as strong as my father?

Bernadetta: With Edelgard gone, maybe Fódlan will finally find some peace. That's all well and good, but, um... She was also the one to put my father under house arrest, so now he's been released, and he's taken charge of House Varley. I can't handle it! I can't deal with him! Please, you have to do something!
Byleth: How about we exile him? 
Byleth: We can put him back under arrest.
Bernadetta: Thank you so much!



Dorothea: So, the moment we defeat Edie, the nobles cozy up to the Alliance and the Church... That lot really does think only of themselves, and no one else. But then there's Count Bergliez. He used to be Minister of Military Affairs... He sacrificed his own life so that all the soldiers and officers who fought could be given quarter... When I heard that... I don't know... that simple act of humanity... I couldn't help it. I burst into tears. You know Count Bergliez is Caspar's father, right? I can't even imagine how Caspar must feel about it.



Petra: The Empire has broken in... in smithereens. Now it is possible for me to go back to Brigid. But... I cannot choose that choice. The time is still too soon for that. We must be stopping the evil for everyone in Fódlan. We will be fighting until the end of it!



Felix: I thought that after the Empire fell, the boar might finally be avenged... But something dark is certainly lurking in the shadows - an organization behind the Empire. We'll have to take care of them if the boar... if Dimitri is to rest in peace.



Ashe: I've only ever done what I thought was just. I've got no regrets, but sometimes I do wonder if I've done the right thing. Was all this really for the best? Sorry - thinking about the end of the war makes me reconsider all kinds of things. But it's not over yet, is it? I need to steel myself for the next battle.



Sylvain: This war might be over but not war in general. Human beings thrive on conflict. We can't get enough of it. I don't know when, but you know someday another war will begin.
Byleth: Even so... 
Sylvain: Heh heh... That's the way it is, right?
Byleth: You're probably right on that.
Sylvain: Yeah, but the fight is still worth it.
Sylvain: War may always come back but so will peace. And peace is what we fight for.



Mercedes: Lady Rhea still seems weak... but at least she's safe now. I'm praying that she'll be well as soon as possible. Goddess... I beg you... Protect Lady Rhea!



Annette: Finally, that awful war is over. Everyone lost something, and everyone had to make sacrifices... But maybe we can put a stop to all of this pain and loss now. Let's hurry to Shambhala, Professor! We have to defeat them if we ever want to see a world without war.



Ingrid: Is it really prudent to bring Lady Rhea on our upcoming expedition? It would be best not to have her doing anything strenuous, considering how long she was confined...
Byleth: It's her decision, ultimately. 
Byleth: I feel similarly.
Ingrid: There are still many in Fódlan who are seeking Lady Rhea's salvation. For their sake, we cannot put her in harm's way.



Lorenz: A mysterious power threatening the very future of Fódlan? Certainly we cannot give it leeway. Right now, the Empire, the Kingdom, and even the Alliance no longer exist. There is only Fódlan - and Fódlan must fight together as one!
Byleth: Aren't you frightened? 
Lorenz: Fear will serve no purpose here. The only path to survival now is victory.
Byleth: Do you think we can defeat it?
Lorenz: There is simply no option but victory! The alternative is unthinkable.
Lorenz: Perhaps I will have the opportunity to strike the decisive blow on the enemy commander. That would secure my place in history for certain!



Raphael: Wake up, eat, train, eat, train, eat, sleep. We gotta prepare for the assault, but that hasn't changed my routine!
Byleth: You're doing plenty. 
Byleth: Isn't there more you can do?
Raphael: All the training... and eating... I do is for the sake of Fódlan! Gotta stay strong... and fed... to keep it safe!



Ignatz: Our next opponent is an ally of Solon. Do you remember what Solon called us?
Byleth: Traitors?
Ignatz: No. He called us beasts.
Byleth: Beasts? 
Ignatz: That's right. He called us beasts.
Byleth: Insects?
Ignatz: No. He called us beasts.
Ignatz: Meanwhile, he refers to himself as the Savior. Who exactly is he saving?



Lysithea: Those who slither in the dark... It seems we'll finally discover their true form. I get the sense that they're in league with the mages who experimented on me as a child. I wouldn't be surprised if Edelgard was subjected to them too. There's no telling what their true motives are. But whatever their motives, what they have done is unforgivable. They must be exterminated.



Marianne: I thought the war would end with Edelgard's defeat... But that wasn't the case. This may be premature, but I'm feeling a little relieved. I'll have to consider what I'll do with myself and where I'll go when this war is finally over... I don't have an answer yet... Let's make sure the next battle puts an end to this war. That way we can all move forward!



Hilda: Shambhala it was called, right? Scary that it's so close to the House Goneril territories. Who'd have thought all those creeps were living under my nose? I was hoping my big brother would help us in the next battle. But he says that I can represent House Goneril without his help. That I have it in me. I'm glad he recognizes that I have some ability. Still, I wish he wasn't leaving it all to me.



Leonie: These are Monica's people, aren't they? The ones who killed Captain Jeralt. Then this is my real opportunity for revenge. There's no way I can back down from this one.
Byleth: You're not scared? 
Leonie: No, I'm OK. Actually, I'm eager to get out there and fight. This is what I've been training for.
Byleth: I wonder if we can win.
Leonie: If we lose, it's the end for Fódlan. So we have to win, even if it kills us.



Seteth: Rhea is sleeping right now. If it is not absolutely urgent, please do not disturb her rest. The long confinement took its toll on her health. Truthfully, she is in no shape to be exerting herself at all - to say nothing of a military expedition. To make matters worse, we are now facing a very old enemy. One that has conspired against us since time out of mind. Please proceed with caution. I have a bad feeling.



Flayn: I am so glad that Rhea is unharmed. My brother continues to worry about her, however. Of course, I am worried myself. I cannot imagine being in that situation while in such a state... I hope she will rest now and leave it up to you and my brother to see things through.



Hanneman: A mysterious organization, slithering in the dark of Fódlan... Like something out of a midnight tale. It appears these fiends have infiltrated the deepest corners of the Empire. After the fall of Enbarr, they've remained well concealed... That said, I would keep an eye on Edelgard's uncle, Lord Arundel. Something about him sits ill with me.



Manuela: Professor! I just got word from the opera company. I don't know if everyone survived, but it looks like they should be able to mount a revival. They even asked if I'd consider making a return to the stage someday... I suspect I may refuse though. We're at the dawn of something new. No reason to look backwards, eh?



Alois: You've done it. You did it. You crushed the Empire, and rescued Lady Rhea. I'm sure the captain is proud of you right now. As am I, of course! I'm as proud as if I'd done it myself!
Byleth: Let's not celebrate just yet. 
Byleth: We still have opponents left to fight.
Alois: Sorry I didn't mean to overdo it. We still have to deal with Monica's group... Those who killed the captain. We'll knock 'em down so hard that they can't get back up!



Catherine: We rescued Lady Rhea! I can hardly express my joy. But now we know about a new foe, who intends to bring her harm. In time, we'll realize the peaceful world that Lady Rhea has always hoped for. I'll have to keep that in mind when I'm fighting.



Shamir: We saved Rhea and the Empire has crumbled. The Kingdom may as well be finished too. The reasons for me to remain in Fódlan are fading.
Byleth: Please, stay with us a little longer. 
Shamir: Of course. I've come this far. May as well see it through to the end.
Byleth: Is it time to bid farewell?
Shamir: That's a little hasty. I've come this far. May as well see it through the end.



Cyril: Lady Rhea's back! Lady Rhea's back! I'm so happy! But... things aren't gonna be like they used to be any time soon, are they? There's still folks out there that want us all dead, and Lady Rhea still hasn't regained her strength yet. Speaking of which, Professor, please don't ask too much of her right now, OK?



Gatekeeper: Greetings, Professor! Nothing to report! I can hardly believe you managed to handle the capital city like that. Everyone did sterling work! I really thought we'd know peace after that battle. But we're not quite there yet, huh?

@Opening 
Relying on a map entrusted to them by Hubert, the resistance army sets their sights on the base belonging to those who slither in the dark. Beyond its entrance, they are met by a sprawling underground city.

Though the flame of war is quenched, its embers endure. You travel deep underground to confront those who slither in the dark and bring lasting peace to Fódlan.

@Intro 
Flayn: To think there is such a vast space hidden beneath the ground. How very creepy.
Linhardt: Hmm, the atmosphere here is very different from the Holy Mausoleum or the Holy Tomb. Look at the shapes and the light...
Caspar: It's too strange... It's all really old, but you get the feeling that it's also...new? I don't understand it.
Petra: This decorating is not of Fódlan... What is the meaning here?
Dorothea: I hate the look of things in here. Is this some kind of city? I would never, ever live here.
Bernadetta: Living underground...all safe and isolated... It sounds really... Um! Really awful!
Ferdinand: An underground city hiding those who slither in the dark. I would not mind finishing up here and returning to the surface with haste.
Seteth: Let us search for a way to descend further still. We should survey our surroundings carefully.

Rhea: …
Byleth: Something on your mind?
Byleth: Are you not feeling well?
Rhea: No. It is simply… We must defeat those who slither in the dark, no matter what happens. But if my conjecture is correct, the one who they will wish to kill the most…

Rhea: Is you, dear child.
Byleth: Why me?
Rhea: They are aware that you can use the Sword of the Creator. Your body houses the same power they once bestowed upon Nemesis. That is why I must protect you, no matter what. Even if I must die to do so...
Byleth: I don't understand.
Rhea: Somewhere in your heart, I believe you do understand. You must at least have your suspicions. There is something I have not yet told you, dear child... I swear to illuminate you once this awful battle has concluded. And at the same time... I will offer my apologies to you. I must, because...when you learn the truth, you will also learn what you are, and how you were born into this world. It will be a hard truth to hear. When the time comes, I hope you are prepared for it...

@Battle 
Thales: For thousands of years, we have existed underground, living on only that we might someday see our vengeance realized. Here and now, that vengeance is finally within our grasp. There is but one thing left to do. Destroy them! Damn those who stand with that arrogant goddess to oblivion, away from the world of the living!

Thales: Now is the time. Remove the binding spell of Titanus. Let their metal bodies be drenched in blood!
Seteth: What is that?!

Rhea: Demonic Beasts… No, I think not. They appear to have no will of their own. Someone must be controlling them.
Thales: Initiate all that remain! We must advance our preparations!

Thales: Viskam has been activated? Increase output gradually, depending on the amount of magical energy charged. I don't care if we destroy Shambhala, as long as our goals are fulfilled!

Seteth: They're trying to take something out of here. We should capture them before they escape.

Seteth: More of these giant weapons?! They must be controlled by someone nearby. That facility over there seems suspicious.

Rhea: Those awful weapons have been stopped. They were being controlled from that facility!

Seteth: Finally, they've stopped! That should make things easier.

Thales: You!
Rhea: That is the leader of those who slither in the dark. We must go after him with all our might!
/***EOF***/
@Opening 
It is Imperial Year 1185. Nearly five years have passed since the fall of the monastery at Garreg Mach, and war continues to plague the lands of Fódlan. Fhirdiad has been captured. The Holy Kingdom of Faerghus is in shambles. The Leicester Alliance is on the verge of collapse, fractured by two opposing factions–those who support the Adrestian Empire and its ruler, and those who seek her demise. Meanwhile, under Emperor Edelgard’s rule of law, the Adrestian Empire continues to expand its reach. The path to a new Fódlan, unified by Imperial strength, may yet be in sight.

@Dialogue 
Edelgard: *sighs* Why am I even here? I know they won't come, but here I am anyway. How has it already been five years? Time stops for no one, I suppose.

Edelgard: Huh? It's-- It's you! What are you doing here?
Byleth: I came here for you.
Edelgard: For me?
Byleth: I'm not sure myself.
Byleth: A whim.
Edelgard: Highly doubtful. So you were alive. What have you been doing all this time?
Byleth: I was sleeping.
Byleth: I was dead.
Edelgard: Joking at a time like this. Well if you don't wish to tell me, I won't persuade you. All that matters is this: Will you return to the Empire with me?
Edelgard: Before you answer, know that friends from our Black Eagle days have chosen to join me in the fight ahead.
Byleth: I...
Edelgard: Hesitation. It betrays your true answer.
Byleth: I can't.
Edelgard: As expected. I knew your answer before I had even asked the question.
Edelgard: That means... we're enemies now, you and I. My teacher, the time for discussion has come to an end.

@Cutscene 
Edelgard: Even though our swords may cross as they do now--

Edelgard: --there's no denying that our chosen paths never will.

Edelgard: Goodbye, my teacher. When next we meet, one of us will breath their last.

@Intro 
Seteth: Who is it?! Is that-- It's you!

Byleth: It's been a long time. 
Seteth: Yes, it has been! But this is no time for casual chatter!
Byleth: What are you doing here?
Seteth: I was going to ask you the very same thing.
Seteth: After you disappeared five years ago, do you have any idea how dire the church's situation became? Where were you, and what were you doing all of those years?
Byleth: I was sleeping.

Seteth: You slept for five years... In that case, I suppose there is nothing more to say. You should know that Rhea also disappeared after the battle at Garreg Mach five years ago. Since then, the knights have been fully devoted to searching for her. They have yet to find a trace.
Byleth: Was she captured by the Imperial army?
Byleth: Was she murdered by the Imperial army?
Seteth: It is possible. However, the Empire has not made any such statement as of yet. Even if that were the truth, there is no way for us to confirm. We have searched all over, but we have reached an impasse. Unless we do something, our efforts to find Rhea and rebuild the Church will be stalled indefinitely. Our opportunity to strike back is close at hand. Sadly, we are short on military strength. However, now we have you. Do you recall what Rhea told you five years ago? She asked for you to take her place should anything ever happen to her. She entrusted you with leading the people of Fódlan.
Byleth: I remember.
Seteth: Then I beg of you, please, heed her words.
Byleth: I can't do that.
Seteth: I will not accept that. Please... you must lend me your strength.
Seteth: It is up to you to lead us and to defeat the Empire-- no, to defeat Edelgard.
Byleth: Why me?
Seteth: There is a very good reason...but it is not yet time to divulge it. Just know that without you, we have no hope.
Byleth: You should lead them.
Seteth: It is not for me to do. You are the only one who can rise to this task. Someday, you will know why that is. Until then, I ask that you trust me.
Byleth: I don't want to fight Edelgard.
Seteth: What are you saying? She is tormenting all of Fódlan! And you are the only one who can save us! How can you not see that?!
Church Soldier: Sir! Bandits have entered the area! They stole some hidden weapons and ran off! They're heading for the town, so that might be where they're hiding out...
Seteth: Vile thieves! Even with the knights gone, I cannot believe they would dare trespass here! This is unforgivable! Come, Professor. Let us give chase!

@Opening 
In the Holy Kingdom of Faerghus, Imperialist loyalist Cornelia has subdued all regions of the former royal house of Blaiddyd to prevent further revolt. Prince Dimitri has been sentenced. Now, the backbone of the former Kingdom–Houses Gautier and Fraldarius–struggle to continue the resistance. Cornelia–operating out of the royal palace–has accepted the support of the Empire to build an army and plots to wipe out all remaining Kingdom forces.

In the Leicester Alliance, House Riegan leads an anti-Imperial faction, while House Gloucester directs the Empire’s supporters. Despite the undeniable threat of fracture, the Alliance’s adept new leader, Claude, deftly maintains the outward appearance of a unified front.

In Enbarr, the Imperial Capital of the Adrestian Empire, Emperor Edelgard fights to strengthen her regime. She has extended her reach to the Kingdom by inciting a coup and continues to draw its former lords under her influence in pursuit of controlling all of western Fódlan.

In the meantime, the Knights of Seiros have been dispatched to find Archbishop Rhea, who remains missing despite their searching. Left unattended, the monastery at Garreg Mach has fallen to ruin…and become a haven for thieves.

@Battle 
Seteth: Looters deserve no forgiveness! After them!
Pallardó: What the… Intruders! Protect the goods!

Seteth: Stop the thieves! Retrieve our stolen goods!

Dorothea: We had no place to go so we came back to Garreg Mach. But then -- Huh? Professor?
Caspar: Looks like there's a fight! I'm ready to join the battle!
Petra: It is confirmed that Professor is alive. I will be...cooperating.
Seteth: What are you doing here?! Never mind, we'll have to talk later! Help us with these thieves!

Bernadetta: People? A battle?! Oh, there wasn't supposed to be anyone here! Wait, is that... Professor?!
Linhardt: Professor... You're alive after all. Well then, I am quite pleased with my choice to come here.
Ferdinand: Professor?! Never mind... We have to focus on winning this fight!
Seteth: Lend us a hand! Let's beat them back!

Seteth: If we split our troops in two, we can attack from the north and the south to trap their leader.

@Battle-Talk 
%Byleth,Dorothea
Dorothea: Do you remember our promise from five years ago, Professor? Today's the day.

%Byleth,Caspar
Caspar: I'm so glad I get to see you again, Professor!

%Byleth,Petra
Petra: I went back to Brigid once...but I had to be returning to Fódlan. 

%Byleth,Ferdinand
Ferdinand: Ah, Professor. You have not changed a bit. I am so glad to fight alongside you again.

%Byleth,Linhardt
Linhardt: So what have you been doing these past five years? Sleeping?! Why, I must say I'm a bit envious.

%Byleth,Bernadetta
Bernadetta: Took all my will to come out here today. But seeing you again, Professor? That's worth a little torture! 

@Boss
Pallardó: No! I'm not the one you want! Gah! I guess I've got no choice.

Pallardó: It isn't looking good for us. Should we retreat?
Seteth: He has some treasure from the monastery too! Do not let him escape!

@End 
Seteth: It seems we were able to expel the bandits who were hiding in Garreg Mach. How fortuitous that you students should gather at the monastery like this...
Dorothea: We made a promise with the professor. That was five years ago to the very day.
Petra: We all gave our promise to be meeting here when the millennium festival arrived.
Linhardt: Though the one who came up with that plan is not here... Edelgard. Still, how incredible that those present gathered despite the terrible state of things...
Caspar: Pfft, the most incredible part of it is that you didn't oversleep and miss the reunion!
Seteth: So, that is the reason... Professor. The monastery is safe because of your devoted students. I am now fully convinced you are the only one who can save Fódlan.
Byleth: That's taking it a bit far.
Seteth: No, not so.
Byleth: You can count on me.
Seteth: Ah, so you have finally accepted your destiny.
Seteth: On the very day I return to Garreg Mach, you awaken and return as well. This is no mere coincidence but, rather, the work of the goddess.
Byleth: What's your reason for being here?
Seteth: Actually... Well, it would be easier to just show you. Come with me to the Holy Mausoleum. I realize that since you have been slumbering for so long, you have no idea what has transpired in the various territories. Allow me to explain... After the Battle of Garreg Mach, there was a change of regime in the Kingdom. House Blaiddyd suffered a series of brutal massacres, which claimed the lives of Dimitri and Regent Rufus. The Kingdom capital fell and was absorbed into the Empire as the Faerghus Dukedom, which is now under Cornelia's control. Some still resist the Empire. As of now, Rodrigue of House Fraldarius is at the center of such efforts. In the Alliance, Claude leads the faction that opposes the Empire, and Lorenz leads those who have sided with them. The front lines are ever in motion, but the war effort has stagnated overall. In short, both the Kingdom and the Alliance have been swallowed up by the Empire and are on the verge of collapse. We must gather our generals and soldiers under your command and reverse this dire situation.

Seteth: Flayn, look! The professor has returned to us!
Flayn: Hm? What do you mean... Oh! Goodness! It really IS you, Professor! I cannot believe you are still of this world! We were so worried we would never see you again.
Byleth: What are you doing here?
Flayn: I forgot something important at the Holy Mausoleum... I told my brother I had to go back for it no matter what, and so here I am...
Seteth: After we finished here, we were going to continue our search for Rhea. But now that you are here, things have changed. We must not waste this opportunity. We shall send word to the knights scattered all across the land. The time has come for the Knights of Seiros to return to action. We are counting on you, Professor!
/***EOF***/
@Opening 
After seizing the Great Bridge of Myrddin, the resistance army starts making preparations to invade Imperial territory, when a surprising piece of information comes to light.

@Dialogue 
Church Soldier: Emergency! In Gronder Field... There's a... It's...
Seteth: We are in the middle of a military conference. Please calm yourself and tell us what is the matter.
Church Soldier: Yes, sir! It seems that the Kingdom and Alliance armies clashed with Imperial forces on Gronder Field! Amid the chaos of three armies battling each other out there, the Imperial army was routed! Edelgard sustained heavy wounds and retreated to Enbarr!
Seteth: Well then! I suppose...
Church Soldier: Sir! The Kingdom army was also decimated and... His Highness, Dimitri, has been counted among the dead.
Seteth: What?!
Church Soldier: The Alliance sustained heavy casualties as well. And the whereabouts of their leader, Claude, is currently unknown.
Seteth: Unknown? I...
Byleth: Edelgard is injured...
Byleth: Dimitri is dead...
Byleth: Claude is missing...
Seteth: It must have been a brutal fight. To have lost His Highness... How tragic. Our only solace is that Edelgard sustained severe injuries. This is all quite unexpected, but we must find a way to use this situation to our advantage. The Empire's main force has suffered a mighty blow. Edelgard will most certainly avoid the front lines. Now is the time for us to infiltrate the Empire and aim for the capital.
Flayn: But...what will happen to the lords of the old Kingdom and Alliance territories?
Seteth: They have lost many leaders and soldiers. I am sure they must be hard at work rebuilding. We will foster cooperation by aiding them through the local churches. The remaining lords of the Kingdom and Alliance must join together to form one union. And you should be the one to lead them... What do you say?
Byleth: In time... 
Byleth: I can't decide that just yet.
Seteth: Indeed. It is a question for another day. We must focus on our battle with the Empire. For now, what is our next course of action?
Byleth: We should set out.
Byleth: Let's decide where to invade first. 
Seteth: We must choose a place within the Empire that will give us solid defenses for our front line... That will become the foothold for our invasion of the capital. There is one massive fortress that boasts the greatest defenses in the Empire...Fort Merceus. But we will stand no chance if we attack by traditional means. We must gather everyone and devise a plan of attack.


Dimitri: ... It has been a lifetime... Hasn't it, Professor?
Byleth:  I thought you were dead.
Dimitri: Yes... I thought so too. I wanted to slice her throat...but I did not get the chance. I let people die, and yet... I still stand. Rodrigue, Gustave, Dedue...
Byleth: There must be a reason you survived.
Dimitri: You sound just like Rodrigue. A reason...
Byleth: You can still atone for your sins.
Dimitri: You sound just like Rodrigue. A way to absolve my sins...
Dimitri: Everyone gives such complicated advice, and I can never quite grasp it all. That is why... Professor. I came here to explain my decision.
Byleth: What decision?
Dimitri: I have no resources to take back the Kingdom capital, much less to defeat the Empire. And that is why...
Seteth: Professor! You will catch a cold sleeping in a place like this. Is something the matter?
Byleth: Where did he go?
Seteth: Hm? I am the only one here. Were you dreaming?
Byleth: ...
Seteth: I can't say for certain that you were dreaming, but if someone did come here to see you... That person only wanted you to see their face. Perhaps they wanted you to guide them...

@Conversation 
Ferdinand: Dimitri, the late prince of Faerghus. He despised the Empire with all his heart. He should not have tried leading an army while his emotions were holding him captive.
Byleth: Leaders are people too.
Byleth: Don't leaders have feelings, like everyone else? 
Ferdinand: True enough, but I suspect the reason he died is that he could not keep his emotions in check. I see. You are saying you met with Dimitri? But you could not tell if it was reality or a dream. Hm. I wonder what it could mean.



Linhardt: I'm rather curious to see what stratagem we'll devise to capture the fortress. You know Fort Merceus's nickname, I assume. The Stubborn Old General? But there must be one or two gaps in its defenses...



Caspar: Fort Merceus is next, huh? Ah, the memories. It's a huge stronghold in my father's domain. The town's completely surrounded by high walls. I used to run around there when I was a kid... Way back when a fortress was a playground for me. Yeah, those were the days.

Bernadetta: It's always so peaceful coming back here. But it's hard to relax knowing we have to go out on another expedition again so soon. And assaulting that huge keep? That sounds hard. Oh, really, hard! Don't you think it'll be hard?!
Byleth: It's going to be tough. 
Bernadetta: I knew you'd think so! I knew you-- Ow! Oh, ow. Can't believe I tried to hug you through the door...
Byleth: We'll be fine.
Bernadetta: Of course you'd say that! Why'd I even ask?!



Dorothea: I heard that a staggering number of people lost their loves in the battle at Gronder. And here we are, preparing for the next battle, as if nothing happened the day before. It's almost easier to think about war as theater, with the stage an entire continent.
Byleth: Though actors die, the show goes on? 
Dorothea: Something like that. If an accident happens on stage, the next day's performance must be unaffected.
Byleth: It really doesn't seem like theater.
Dorothea: Even if an accident happens on stage, the next day you have to sing as though nothing happened.
Dorothea: Everyone just pretends like everything is fine... focusing on their role in the play.



Petra: I have excitement in my heart for secret tactics! I enjoy attacks that are surprising.
Byleth: Why's that?
Petra: Surprise attacks are safe with friends. Fewer injuries.
Byleth: Because it's like hunting? 
Petra: Yes. Hunting is doing surprise attacks on prey. Surprise attacks are safe with friends. Fewer injuries.



Felix: It hasn't sunk in yet. They slaughtered the boar... I can hardly believe it. I thought he was alive all this time. He must have really hated Edelgard to lead such an ill-advised assault. Hmph. No point in feeling sorry for the poor scoundrel now.



Ashe: I've heard Dedue's passed on. Just like His Highness.
Byleth: We can't know that for certain.
Ashe: That's true. I did hear that his body was never found.
Byleth: Don't believe everything you hear. 
Ashe: You're right. I don't think anyone's found his body, so I guess he might still be out there.
Byleth: Dedue is dead?
Ashe: That's what I've heard. But no one's found his body.
Ashe: If, somehow, he's still alive...I hope we'll meet again.



Sylvain: Ya know, Professor, laying siege to a keep is like asking a girl out on a date. First, you get past her defenses...then you make your move.
Byleth: That's not the best analogy.
Sylvain: Trust me, I know what I'm talking about. I'm a seasoned veteran at this kind of thing. Girls, I mean . I've never actually, you know, captured any keeps...
Byleth: You might be right. 
Sylvain: Ha! I knew you'd get it, Professor.
Sylvain: Anyway, you know more about tactics than me, so I don't know why I'm offering you advice.



Mercedes: Oh, Goddess, hear my prayer. Please bless the deceased with peace everlasting... And may his soul rest in tranquility. You know, I used to see him praying quite often when I would come to the cathedral at night. I wonder who it was he prayed for back then...



Annette: Professor. They tell me my father died at Gronder. Was that... Was that really a fitting end for one such as him? I don't know. I just...don't know.



Ingrid: I only know what little I overheard. But what I did hear implied that the Empire was involved in the Tragedy of Duscur. If it's true, that may explain why His Highness chose to fight the Empire. Perhaps I should have fought alongside His Highness.
Byleth: Why is that?
Ingrid: Because...I too, lost someone to that tragedy--the most important person in my world.
Byleth: Are you having regrets? 
Ingrid: No. Not anymore. I am where I belong.
Ingrid: Those of us still on this plane of existence will carry on the torch. The inhumane actions of the Empire must not be repeated.



Lorenz: Fort Merceus is old and strong. It's reputation for durability is equal to that of Arianrhod. Are you certain your plan is sufficient? It seems to be a little simplistic.
Byleth: Guess we'll find out. 
Lorenz: That's not terrifically reassuring! Shouldn't you have more faith in your own plans?!
Byleth: We'll be fine.
Lorenz: I suppose I must take you at your word, mustn't I?
Lorenz: Incidentally, have you heard any news of Claude? I, for one, have a hard time believing he is dead. He was always a clever and tenacious sort.



Raphael: You know when you work your muscles and they start screaming? That means you gotta be nice to them. If you're muscles are hungry, you gotta feed them, and let them rest when they're tired.
Byleth: I don't see how you'd do that.
Raphael: Whaddya mean, how? You just gotta eat and sleep! It's pretty obvious...
Byleth: You can tell how your muscles are feeling? 
Raphael: Of course! If my muscles hurt, then I hurt. If they're hungry, well then I'm hungry too!
Raphael: What's with the confused face, Professor? You look like you don't get a word I'm saying!



Ignatz: It sounds like the battle at Gronder Field was pretty gruesome. We don't know for certain whether Claude's alive or dead. Maybe he's all right? I wish I could make sure somehow. But it doesn't seem possible now.



Lysithea: If Claude somehow survived, I imagine he's terribly wounded. All three forces have suffered heavy losses. We're incredibly lucky to have not been involved. This is a perfect and unique opportunity to go on the offense. Now is the time to prove ourselves, Professor.



Marianne: I never used to care whether I lived or died... But when I think of all those who died at Gronder, I realize how precious life truly is. I'm ashamed of how arrogant I was to think that death could mean so little...



Hilda: I like this idea of yours--dressing as Imperial soldiers so they'll let us in. But don't you wish there was one more twist in the plan? Come on, Professor, think! How could we add another wrinkle, hm?
Byleth: We can dress you as the emperor. 
Hilda: Dress me as Edelgard?! But we look nothing alike!
Byleth: We could dress Seteth as a woman.
Hilda: Seteth, dressed as a woman? I don't understand what the point of that would be.
Hilda: On second thought, let's just stick to the plan as originally conceived. That seems safer.



Leonie: Under your leadership, we can win any battle, no matter the odds. That's what everyone's saying anyway. Hope you can keep up with our expectations, Professor.



Seteth: The battle at Gronder Field certainly took an unexpected turn, did it not? Let us press on, so as not to waste the opportunity. Fort Merceus is a keep that was constructed to defend the Imperial Capital, Enbarr. We cannot enter the capital without first capturing that fort. But once we have it, the city should be almost entirely at our mercy. I will make the necessary preparations. Be ready.



Flayn: Standing face to face with those whom I went to school with. On the field of battle... How inhuman war is--how horrifying. My heart feels shattered. It is my hope that this war marks the end of such foolish behavior.



Hanneman: Fort Merceus is the Empire's single most fortified military installation. Utterly impregnable, they say. I wonder, do you happen to know the nickname given to Fort Merceus?
Byleth: The Silver Maiden.
Hanneman: No, I'm afraid that name refers to the Fortress City of Arianrhod.
Byleth: Fódlan's Locket.
Hanneman: That one is a fortress that stands at Fódlan's Throat.
Byleth: The Stubborn Old General. 
Hanneman: Indeed! A very good answer, but of course you'd know that.
Hanneman: Seems Fódlans give everyone and everything a nickname. Why, you were called the Ashen Demon! Myself, I have been called the Father of Crestology, which is a nickname as well as a title, I suppose...



Manuela: Each step closer to Enbarr, I'm reminded of another part of my past. Riches and poverty, glory and failure, that city has it all. And if I'm honest...sometimes I miss it. That's how the past works though, isn't it? It's always a different story than what you really lived.



Alois: You're quite a tactician! Disguising ourselves as enemy soldiers to sneak in, undetected. A stroke of brilliance. In a frontal attack, our losses would be tremendous. With this strategy, we can really snatch victory from the jaws of...deceit!
Byleth: That's a good point.
Alois: Yes... With you leading our fighters, I've no doubt the Empire will suffer an embarrassing deceit. Get it? Deceit? Again?
Byleth: That's a bad pun. 
Alois: Ah, rats! You've seen through my cunning punning!



Catherine: I hardly recognize everyone... Their faces have changed so much. More experience in the eyes, and more pain. I'm glad that they're stronger, but I hate to think they've all become hardened killers. Look after them, OK? Try to keep 'em on the straight-and-narrow.



Shamir: Did you give the ridiculous order to prepare Imperial armor for every one of our troops? I've reached out through all my channels, but there are limits to these things. I'll have to recruit an entire town's worth of people if I ever plan on making enough.



Cyril: Guess what I noticed. I can see further than most other people can see. But I can't figure the point of seeing further than an arrow can fly, since I can't shoot what I see.
Byleth: You could detect enemy movements in advance.
Cyril: I suppose I could see a whole horde of enemies coming and run away. That's kinda useful at least.
Byleth: You could find our targets quicker than anyone. 
Cyril: Yeah, I suppose it could be real useful for finding Lady Rhea too.




Anna: A Class reunion on the battlefield? That's...bleak. That must've been so hard on everyone. You gotta keep looking after them all. I mean, they still look to you for guidance, you know?



Gatekeeper: Greetings, Professor! Nothing to report! Is it true that we'll be assaulting Fort Merceus next? That doesn't sound like the brightest idea... I've heard that it's built to withstand an attack from even the largest of armies! Not to tell you how to do your job, but don't do it! I'm not ready to say my final good-byes to everyone...

@Intro 
Seteth: We are just about to pass through Gronder Field. We should be in view of Fort Merceus soon. It looks like the battle made quite an impact... The Imperial Army has lost some of its luster. We should soon be able to invade the fort without too much trouble.
Byleth: Because of the Alliance and Kingdom's sacrifices...
Seteth: Yes, we must win for them as well.
Byleth: We cannot let this opportunity pass us by.
Seteth: Yes, after a few short months, they will already be back on their feet. We cannot waste this opportunity.
Ferdinand: Professor, the soldiers have finished changing into their disguises. We are ready to masquerade as Imperial troops and infiltrate the fort.
Byleth: Disguises?
Byleth: Infiltrate the fort?
Seteth: I believe this was your idea, was it not? It is impossible to take Fort Merceus with a frontal assault. We must take it from within. We will infiltrate the fort as Imperial troops and kill the enemy general. All preparations are complete.
Caspar: According to the scout reports, my father and the others are not inside the fort. It seems they were moved to the front lines of the Kingdom's western region.
Church Soldier: The Death Knight became the general of this fort after the battle at Gronder Field.
Bernadetta: What?! The Death Knight?! I think I'll be taking a break now... You guys go on ahead.
Petra: Bernadetta, you cannot be hiding on a field. The enemy will be seeing you.
Bernadetta: No place to hide?! I guess... I have no choice but to fight!
Seteth: The Death Knight... I hear that he is counted among the greatest heroes of the Empire at the moment. We never determined whether or not he was truly Jeritza. So in capturing Merceus, we have encountered another obstacle.
Byleth: We've beaten him before. 
Seteth: I suppose you have a point. If we challenge him again with conviction, we are sure to attain victory.
Byleth: Let's be careful.
Seteth: Yes, now more than ever.
Linhardt: The Impenetrable Fortress City of Arianrhod goes by the name Silver Maiden. Yet she pales in comparison to Fort Merceus--the Stubborn Old General. Those who approach are driven back, but once we make our way in, it's all ours.
Dorothea: That fort has been brought to life on stage for countless operas...
Seteth: Let us commence. We must puncture a hole in the Empire's defenses!


Death Knight: That man/woman approaches... Will death's scythe claim you... Or will I fall to that sword of yours...

@Opening 
At Gronder Field, the armies of the Kingdom, Alliance, and Empire collide. The three forces engage in a fierce battle, each suffering significant losses before deciding to withdraw. Seeing an opportunity, the resistance army quickly plots an invasion of Imperial territory. In order to gain a foothold in the Empire, they will attempt to capture Fort Merceus.

Fort Merceus, said to be impregnable, lies between you and Enbarr, the Imperial Capital. Seizing the sturdy fortress will require a carefully devised strategy.

@Battle
Imperial Soldier: Report! A group posing as Imperial soldiers has infiltrated! They seem to be affiliated with the church!
Death Knight: Close the gates. Leave no survivors.

Death Knight: The time is ripe.
Seteth: Do not let him get away! Circle around and cut off his retreat!

Death Knight: The time of ruin draws near... But their slaughter must wait until next we meet...
Seteth: He's fled, has he? Let us deal with the remaining foes and then make haste in our pursuit!

@Boss 
%Mercedes,Death Knight
Death Knight: You. Leave.
Mercedes: No! I won't! I... I refuse to run from you anymore!

%Flayn,Death Knight
Flayn: So it's you, Death Knight! Remember me?!
Death Knight: You again. Here to lose more blood?
Flayn: Never! You will not lay a hand on me ever again

%Seteth,Death Knight
Seteth: You will not escape, Death Knight. Today you will be unmasked!
Death Knight: My true identity has no value.
Seteth: I will be the judge of that, once I've seen your face.

Death Knight: If you desire to slay me, follow. The appointed hour is at hand...

@Cutscene 
Death Knight: It is coming... Leave now or all of you will die.

Alliance Soldier in Imperial gear: Run! We have to evacuate immediately!

Alliance Infantry Soldier: What just happened here?
Alliance Armoured Soldier: The fort, it's... It's just... gone.

@End 
Seteth: Whatever could that have been... It was almost reminiscent of that terror of legend...
Byleth: What legend?
Seteth: We haven't the time for stories...
Byleth: We need to get out of here.
Seteth: Agreed. We must retreat for now.
Seteth: All we can do is retreat to the Great Bridge of Myrddin and assess our situation.


Manuela: Well now, that marching was nearly as trying as the battle itself.
Hanneman: We wasted a few days, but now that we're this far back, we should be safe... Or so I believe.
Catherine: I still can't believe it. The fort was destroyed, just like that...
Shamir: The Death Knight knew about the attack. Was it the Empire's doing?
Cyril: Guess that means they'd rather destroy the fort than lose it.
Alois: Whatever the case, we need to get our bearings and decide what we're going to do next.
Seteth: We all have many questions, but for now, we must focus on our next move.
Byleth: Let's give up.
Seteth: What?! How could... Ah. Yes, I see.
Byleth: Let's attack the Imperial capital.
Seteth: I wish for that as well, but we are sure to fall if we charge in without a plan. Hmm... But by the look on your face, I have the feeling you are working out a plan even now.
Byleth: Let's return to the monastery.
Seteth: What?! If we return to the monastery, then our situation is sure to... Ah. Yes, I see...
Byleth: Now you've got it.
Byleth: Whatever do you mean?
Seteth: No need to hide your intentions from me.
Seteth: So, we make it appear as though we have ceased our invasion by returning to Garreg Mach. Then we divide up our soldiers and infiltrate nearby areas of the capital right under the Empire's nose. Finally, we gather all of the soldiers somewhere we can get to swiftly from Garreg Mach and proceed to invade Enbarr. Is that what you are thinking?
Caspar: Are you serious? You know there's no guarantee that we won't be spotted by the enemy, right?
Ferdinand: If we fail to intervene, we will be isolated inside the Empire and be...utterly obliterated.
Petra: I will be embracing the nearness of death if I am needing to. With each other!
Bernadetta: That sounds dangerous...really, incredibly dangerous!
Seteth: Make no mistake...if we fail in this plan, there will be no coming back from it. Are you sure about this, Professor?
Byleth: It's our only hope.
Seteth: I see. If you are resolved, then I will follow suit. We may be weaker and the terrain may be against us, but all we can do is use our resources the best we can. That, and pray for the blessings of the goddess.
/***EOF***/
@Opening
Having parted ways with Edelgard, former students of the Black Eagle House now work alongside the Knights of Seiros at Garreg Mach. They begin to create a resistance army strong enough to take on her Imperial forces.

@Dialogue 
Alois: Ah, thank the goddess... I couldn't bear the thought of letting Jeralt down by not finding you.
Shamir: Guess you lucked out.
Catherine: We've been looking everywhere for you! But...I see Lady Rhea isn't with you. Damn.
Cyril: Everyone was real worried about you, Professor.
Hanneman: Seteth has told us everything. From here on out, you will have our aid.
Seteth: I am so grateful that everyone is safe. I am sorry things are moving so rapidly, but there is something we must discuss. Come with me.



Seteth: The time has come to make our true stand against the Empire.
Byleth: Let's win, no matter what.
Byleth: Let's all work together. 
Byleth: I don't feel confident, but we'll do our best.
Seteth: Our base will be Garreg Mach Monastery. The interior is in less than pristine condition, but we should be able to utilize it much the same as we had before.
Catherine: Surely those Imperial jerks have this place staked out, right? It's a highly strategic location.
Seteth: It may be an area of importance, but it is far removed from the front lines. Considering the burden of transport, it is possible they are not paying too much attention to it.
Shamir: Nothing escapes the emperor. There must be at least a spy or two.
Flayn: Professor, what do you think?
Byleth: I have no objections.
Flayn: I see! Then it must be the right idea!
Byleth: I'm worried about supplies.
Seteth: Your concern is valid. However...
Seteth: The town and surrounding hamlets are still present, and though far from abundant, the church still has funds at its disposal.
Flayn: That's true... Professor, I think we can leave expanding our army to my brother. He was always good at negotiating, and I believe he is best suited to the task.
Ferdinand: In that case, I have a request. Please allow my soldiers to join your ranks as well. House Aegir already tried taking on the emperor. As a result, our territory was stolen from us. As a consequence, I do not have many soldiers left to speak of. But those I have are yours to command.
Dorothea: I feel like I should tell you that I've been protecting some kids who lost their parents in the war. They're in the town right now, but maybe we can move them to the monastery? I'm sure they'd be happy to chip in however they can.
Seteth: Hm... Yes, I understand. I will make the necessary arrangements.
Linhardt: I nabbed some valuables from my house. Father is with the emperor now, so... It's not much, but it's yours.
Bernadetta: I don't have a thing to contribute. In fact, I'm still in my same old clothes!
Caspar: I've been wandering on my own for five years. I won't go back to that house or my father, that's for sure!
Seteth: I understand. Leave it to me. No labor is too great if it means saving Fódlan...

@Conversation 
Ferdinand: I have lost my dominion. My nobility may seem like nothing more that a title. But I will never lose my noble heart. I will stop Edelgard, even if it costs me my life. I have turned my blade against her now. I cannot go back on that decision. Professor... Do you think I chose the wrong path?
Byleth: Not at all.
Ferdinand: You are right...
Byleth: We'll find out soon enough. 
Ferdinand: You are right...



Linhardt: The promise was made five years ago, but I must say I'm rather impressed by how many of us managed to make it. Personally, I only showed up because I hoped to see you again, Professor. I've been with my family in the Empire until recently. I admit to feeling a little guilty betraying Her Majesty...but only a little. Now that we're all together again, I suppose the fighting will begin soon.



Caspar: Hey, Professor! You won't believe what happened! I figured I couldn't go back to the Empire after Garreg Mach fell, so I started drifting across the Kingdom and the Alliance. Then I just happened to run into our old class, so we came back to the monastery together!

Bernadetta: Ah, at last, I return to my domain! My lonely paradise! My realm of exquisite solitude! Huh? Professor? Is that, um. Is that you? You, um. You didn't hear that just now, did you?
Byleth: Sorry.
Bernadetta: Oh! Forget you heard anything!
Byleth: Hear what? 
Bernadetta: Right. You didn't? Well, um. Good.



Dorothea: Laaa-la-laaa-la-laaa... Professor! Oh my! It's so good to see you. These days, so many old friends seem to be disappearing. But you... You're here! It's incredible to see you again after five years! I have a feeling your name will go down in history.



Petra: Edelgard is controlling the Empire. She is putting the pressure on the Kingdom and Alliance. Empire and religion are at open war. It will be...difficult for us at first. But corrupt nobles are many. That means that common people will rebel and be joining our side. With you, Professor, the battle tides will...ah, will turn. I have certainty.



Felix: A country with no king has no future. That's why I made my way here. Professor, don't let me down.
Byleth: Country with no king?
Felix: Hmph. You'll understand soon enough.
Byleth: Let's forge ahead. 
Felix: Yes, let's. Find me a worthy opponent to battle, and I'll be content.




Sylvain: I left home without telling my father. Did you know that? I can just imagine my father's face contorted in anger and the delightful words he must have used to describe me. Kind of a scary image, actually. But regardless, I've put my faith in you, Professor. And I'm hoping I haven't made a big mistake.



Sylvain: Hey, Professor. It's been a while. It's really good to see you again. Gorgeous as ever, might I add. An awful lot has happened in these past five years. There were so many times I wished you were around. I'm glad you're back. Your skills are worth more than a whole army.



Mercedes: You're here, Professor, along with everyone from our old class. It's like we've gone back in time! When I think that I'll be around you again, all of my sorrows just drift away.
Byleth: Frankly, I don't feel too happy.
Mercedes: Hmm, I understand. Especially with Lady Rhea missing... It sounds like the Kingdom and Alliance have been in a sorry state too. But we can't let that get us down!
Byleth: Let's do our best together.
Mercedes: Hmm, yes. I'll at least try not to hold anyone back.
Mercedes: Let's work together for the common good, like we did five years ago!



Annette: Members of the knights tell me that Father left their ranks five years ago. They say he announced he was returning to the Kingdom, but nobody's heard from him since. I haven't received word that he went back home to Mother... Where could he be... Where are you, Father...



Ingrid: Professor, I have a proposal. Why not go beyond the Knights of Seiros--instead, uniting with allies from all across Fódlan to fight for our cause? Looking back, it would have been best to ally with the Kingdom and join forces against the Empire. But now the Kingdom is not exactly... Well...



Raphael: Fighting alongside you and everyone else is a dream come true, Professor! And don't worry about my little sis. Right now she's back home helping out with the family business. I kinda figured I was gonna be stuck going back and taking over for her. But thanks to you guys, I get to work on my dream of becoming a proper knight!



Ignatz: It's been fixed up quite a bit, but its battle scars aren't so easily erased... To think that a glorious cathedral, with a thousand year history...would end up like this. I'll rebuild this place someday. This cathedral is the symbol of Fódlan. Maybe I should paint a picture of the beautiful cathedral of old, while I still remember what it looked like...



Lysithea: I've grown weary and impatient--these past five years, my hands have been bound. But now, I can finally take action with a clear goal. I'm grateful to you and to everyone.
Byleth: I didn't do anything. 
Lysithea: Nonsense. Your presence steeled everyone's resolve.
Byleth: And that goal is?
Lysithea: Down with the Empire! Surely peace will soon follow if the Empire is overthrown. Then my parents can finally find peace themselves.



Marianne: Even with the church in shambles, we can still pray. The goddess will surely hear our prayers, but still... I hope the church can return to its former beauty someday.



Hilda: Hey, Professor? I know that we didn't plan to stop at the monastery, but I'm glad we did. I'm happy to be here with everyone again.
Byleth: You're happy at a time like this?
Hilda: What good does grimness do us? Let's try to enjoy our time together while we still can.
Byleth: I'm happy too. 
Hilda: Right? It's as though we went back in time five years. I feel like my old self again.



Leonie: It's not just for my village that I'm fighting alongside you here, you know. It's also that Captain Jeralt asked me, his first and greatest apprentice, to look out for you. Of course, it wouldn't be enough just to keep you alive. It's my duty to make sure you win too. So, do your best, Professor. And count on me to watch your back.



Seteth: With the return of its knights, Garreg Mach is finally coming back to life. The Church of Seiros will follow you from now on, but please do not abandon the search for Lady Rhea.
Byleth: We'll do whatever it takes to find her. 
Seteth: Thank you. I know the battles ahead will be dire, but we will support you with all our strength.
Byleth: We don't know what the future will bring.
Seteth: Wherever she is, Rhea is doubtlessly waiting for you. Please do not let her down.



Flayn: Professor, I am so glad you are unharmed! No matter the path you walk, I will be with you every step of the way. Anything you ask of me, I shall see it through. You saved my life, and I am in your debt.



Hanneman: Thankfully, it appears the records and equipment I need for my research have not been damaged. I am most curious though. You say you were asleep for five whole years? Incredible. Perhaps this is another effect of your Crest. I do look forward to investigating you in greater detail.
Byleth: We can talk about that. 
Hanneman: Wonderful news! I am most excited to begin. We must find the time, of course.
Byleth: Uh, maybe later...
Hanneman: I'll have to be content with observing you wherever you go, then. I cannot waste any opportunity!



Manuela: My, Professor. You haven't changed a bit! At your age, I'd expect your while demeanor to have changed greatly over five years... Though, I suppose I haven't changed either right? Thank you for noticing, by the way. Ah, just the two of us, forever young. Oh, let me have my fun.



Alois: I'd given up on ever seeing you again. Where have you been hiding? Anyway, now that we're reunited in the land of the living, I must fulfill my promise!
Byleth: What promise?
Alois: The promise I made to the captain, to keep you safe! I can't believe you've forgotten. How cold...
Byleth: Right, the promise. 
Alois: That's right! I promised the captain I'd protect you in his stead, and now I'll make good on my word!



Catherine: In Lady Rhea's absence, I will follow you. That's what she would want me to do. Know that wherever you might lead us, I'll continue searching for Lady Rhea.
Byleth: That's fine. 
Catherine: Good, because I will not budge on that point. Welcome back, Professor.
Byleth: Sounds like a lot of trouble.
Catherine: I don't care how much trouble it is! I will rescue Lady Rhea, at all costs.



Shamir: I'm more of a mercenary than a knight these days. I work to get paid. I never was too attached to Fódlan. I was considering leaving soon... But I might change my mind if you're around.



Cyril: I don't know anything about rebuilding, but I can sure do my best to clean up the mess. I'm gonna keep Lady Rhea's room spotless, so she can use it right away whenever she gets back. You gotta find her, Professor. You just gotta.



Anna: There's unrest everywhere these days. All of my fellow merchants seem to be endangered. I hope things go back to normal soon. People need more to smile about, aside from my great deals.

Gatekeeper: Greetings, Professor! Nothing to report! You know, it's such a thrill to be able to greet you like this again! I almost died in the battle five years ago, but I won't allow any enemies to get into this place again. I promise you that! even if the Death Knight shows up, I'll be sure to... Well, for now I'll keep training so I can eventually feel confident that I can stop him!

@Intro 
Seteth: Your attention, everyone. The Knights of Seiros and our most trusted allies have gathered. We have rallied our troops for the purpose of stopping the Adrestian Empire's efforts to rule all. We have prepared a new flag to fight under...
Seteth: Much like the professor, it bears the Crest of Flames. I hope everyone finds this suitable. Beneath this flag, we will bring back peace to the great land of Fódlan!


Flayn: Professor, I'm not sure I understand... Why is the Empire intent on making an enemy of the church?
Byleth: I don't understand either.
Flayn: Quite perplexing... If the church disappears from Fódlan, I wonder if the Empire thinks it will benefit them in some way? I feel, I feel that it will only confuse the people.
Byleth: They must oppose the way of the church.
Flayn: What is meant by the way of the church? What do they dislike about it?
Seteth: I have no idea what Edelgard was thinking or how she arrived at the decision to raise an army. However, I do have some small insight as to what she is after. She is attempting to destroy the existing social order. That is why the Church of Seiros is first on the list of institutions that must be destroyed. It may very well be her goal to rebuild Fódlan from the ground up...
Flayn: I see... But that is only Edelgard's desire, is it not? I cannot imagine that the people of Fódlan would want that for themselves. She may have high ideals, but she certainly lacks any compunction about throwing the world, and its people, into an awful war... It just seems so illogical!
Seteth: You have a point, Flayn. I do not believe the people will ever understand her aim. So long as she makes the people suffer, our Knights of Seiros will fight on and strive to protect them. If we do not defeat Edelgard and retake control of this world, Fódlan's future shall be as dark as night.
Flayn: Thank you, dear Brother. I finally feel I understand what is going on.
Seteth: I am always happy to answer your questions, Flayn. Is there anything else you wish to ask?
Flayn: Well, um... Actually, I have a question for the professor. My brother mentioned that...you slumbered for five years. Where was it that you slept?
Byleth: At the bottom of a valley.
Flayn: The bottom of a valley? In the water? That certainly sounds frigid! I would never choose such a place myself. I am surprised you did not fall ill.
Byleth: Under a rock.
Flayn: Under a rock... How similar we are! As it were, I took my rest in a casket made of stone.

Flayn: Oh. Well, I suppose one's first long slumber is difficult to recall...
Byleth: ...
Knight of Seiros: Pardon the intrusion, but we must prepare a counterattack! Now! It seems the Imperial Army found out about us entering the monastery!
Seteth: Hm. That is sooner than expected. They must have been spying on us...
Flayn: I wonder if we can win on our own...
Knight of Seiros: There aren't many of them... It looks like we'll just be facing the ones who were stationed nearby.
Seteth: Did they move on us too soon? Perhaps if we fight by using the land to our advantage...
Byleth: Let's proceed carefully.
Seteth: Of course. If we are careful, we will not lose.
Byleth: Let's destroy them.
Flayn: Yes, I agree. Let us take them out in one fell swoop!
Seteth: Never again will those Imperial scoundrels disgrace Garreg Mach with their presence! Onward, Professor!

@Opening 
Though preparations are still being made to raise troops for the resistance army at Garreg Mach, the Imperial army is already one step ahead. Anticipating the resistance army's actions, General Randolph and the Imperial vanguard under his command begin their advance towards Garreg Mach to reclaim the monastery.

Fulfilling a promise made five years ago, your former students gather once more at the monastery, as do the knights. However, your joyful reunion is cut short...

@Battle 
Randolph: The Knights of Seiros are a powerful enemy, but we have more soldiers. We'll take them down all at once!
Seteth: Clever tactics are our only hope here. We will use fire to deal with the main enemy force.

Knight of Seiros: Report! The enemy has entered the periphery of Garreg Mach!
Seteth: If we allow them to take the interior, the monastery will be lost. We must drive them back!

Imperial Soldier: What? That strange battle flag is... But isn't our enemy the Church of Seiros?
Randolph: They didn't have enough soldiers with just the church, so they upped their numbers by joining with those filthy rogues. It doesn't matter what flag they fly. They're nothing more than a mob. We'll destroy them all!

Seteth: Our troops are preparing the attack. Protect them until they reach their destination!

Seteth: Ugh... To think we'd let Garreg Mach fall twice to these rebels...

Randolph: A total loss... But we can't just return home like this...
Seteth: Watch out, Professor! They're coming for you!


Seteth: Our fire unit was destroyed. The plan has failed...
Randolph: It looks like they were planning something, but it failed!

Seteth: All is prepared. Now we just need to draw the enemy's attention. Traitors! Repent of your sins and the goddess may yet show you mercy!
Randolph: Quiet! Don't think you'll get away with mocking me! Attack! Make sure they never speak again!
Seteth: Now! Begin!

Imperial Soldier 1: Fire! Gyaaaaaah!
Imperial Soldier 2: It burns! Save me!
Randolph: Argh, a fire attack... The damage is too great. We can't fight anymore! All units, retreat! I'll take on our pursuers! Carry away the injured soldiers!


Seteth: Press the attack! Give them no quarter!

@End 
Seteth: We drove back the Imperial army. The real fight has only just begun...
Caspar: I never thought I'd be fighting Randolph... I guess it can't be helped, seeing as how I've left my own territory and all. But...what will I do if my father or brother get involved. I really don't want to face them...
Byleth: We must stay strong.
Ferdinand: Too true, Professor. So long as the Empire is our enemy, we cannot avoid fighting those we are acquainted with. Though I suppose I have it easier since my house is no longer on the Empire's side.
Dorothea: My friends from the opera said they would leave the capital and go west... So, at least I won't be seeing them in battle.
Linhardt: Hmm, I don't think I care if my own house falls. Let's make it a grand fight...after a grand nap of course...
Petra: It does not give me happiness to have the people of Brigid involved...but it is not the time to be thinking of that. If it is a possibility, I will be having their strength.
Bernadetta: I don't mind at all. Really! I have no friends anyway, and my father hasn't done much to make me care for him. Not that he'd ever step on a battlefield anyway! Oh, but I do wonder how Mother is doing...
Seteth: Each of our situations is unique. What we share is companionship and the will to fight as one. Professor, you are the heart of our efforts. We will support you as best we can.

Seteth: I have a proposal. It would be most difficult to fight the Imperial army with the forces we have now. As such, I believe we should send messengers to whatever lords we can trust in the Kingdom and the Alliance so that we may gain their support. Do you agree?
Byleth: I agree. 
Seteth: It is heartening to hear you say that.
Byleth: It concerns me.
Seteth: It is difficult to know who we can trust, of course. But we cannot just stand idle either.
Seteth: If all we do is bide our time, out enemy's main army will come down upon us like a hammer from above.
Shamir: Who are you planning to ask?
Catherine: Sadly, House Charon is out. We can trust them, but they have no help to offer.
Alois: Hm, how about House Daphnel of the Alliance? Their leader is sure to at least respond.
Flayn: Oh, how about House Daphnel of the Alliance? I recall that their leader was quite exceptional.
Seteth: Judith, the Hero of Daphnel... Yes, that is a fine suggestion. That territory is on the border of the Kingdom and the Alliance. It has not yet been claimed by the fires of war. If they agree to lend us their troops, out forces will be greatly strengthened. We shall send along a secret messenger at once.
/***EOF***/
@Opening 
After storming the streets of Enbarr and bringing imperial forces to their knees, the resistance army surrounds the Imperial palace. To topple the Empire and save Rhea from its clutches, the resistance army steels itself for battle against Emperor Edelgard.

@Intro 
Seteth: Everyone. It is probable that Rhea is within the castle walls. We must defeat Edelgard and rescue Rhea in one fell swoop, no matter what stands in our way.
Byleth: I don't want to kill Edelgard.
Byleth: Perhaps we can walk the same path as Edelgard...
Seteth: She is one of your students. I understand your desire for a path to peace. But she will never bend to our will. You do understand that, do you not? We have no choice but to kill her.
Ferdinand: We have already killed Hubert. Now is no time to hesitate.
Caspar: She has it coming! After all, she started this war!
Bernadetta: Someone has to stop her, and that someone is us!
Linhardt: As her former classmates, I feel we owe it to her to try talking it out.
Petra: This battle will be a deciding one. I am believing that it is her wish to be facing us.
Dorothea: Poor Edie... Professor, wherever you lead, I'll follow.
Cyril: I... I'll fight with all I got to save Lady Rhea!
Alois: In the name of the Knights of Seiros, we'll bring the hammer down on the Imperial army!
Flayn: The lives of Lady Rhea and everyone here are more important than all else. I shall be prepared.
Seteth: I leave this mission in your hands. Say the word, and we shall begin!

@Battle 
Edelgard: They've made it into the palace, but it's actually the perfect chance to turn the tables on them. Defeating them all will turn the tide of the war instantly. Taking a risk on dragging us back from the brink is the only option. Everyone! Prepare for a bitter struggle! Victory to the Adrestian Empire!

Seteth: The throne room is tightly locked. But wherever there are locks, there are also keys.


Dedue: So close... Must press on...


Imperial Soldier: Infiltrators! Kill them!

Edelgard: I must confess I never imagined that you would be able to pursue me this far. I don't mean to belittle your skills, Professor, but you've far surpassed my expectations.

Seteth: Block off the stairwells! Stop their reinforcements from getting through!

Seteth: Well done! Their reinforcements are cut off.
Edelgard: Clever tactic. It's going to be difficult to turn the tables now.

@End 
Seteth: At last, it is over... Now we must find Rhea.
Flayn: Professor! Brother! I have a letter. The Imperial general asked me to deliver this to my instructor.
Seteth: Who is it from? Hurry up, Professor. Read it at once.
Ferdinand: It is from...Hubert? Though he has left this world, he is reaching out through this letter...
Hubert: If you are reading this letter, that means I have perished. As Her Majesty would never surrender to another, I can only assume she has fallen as well. It greatly pains me to think of this coming to pass... That said, as the survivors, I must ask you to settle certain affairs in our stead. You must destroy the threat that slithers in the dark. I am sure you must recall Monica and Tomas.
Seteth: What Hubert has written here... I cannot... No, I know it must be true. And if that is the case, then all else makes sense now. I must speak with Rhea. It seems our battle is not over just yet. Those who slither in the dark... We must kill every last one of them, or Fódlan will never again know peace.
Flayn: They are allies of Monica and Tomas... Correct? The ones who were after my blood. And also the ones who destroyed Fort Merceus with that mysterious light...
Seteth: We shall discuss this more after we have rescued Rhea.

Rhea: You... You have come to save me... Is this... Is this a dream? I have longed to see you again... all this time... Is it truly you?

Rhea: Seteth, Flayn... You are here as well... Thank you for supporting the professor, and for rescuing me.
Seteth: Rhea... I am overjoyed that you are unharmed. I could not stand losing another of our kind.
Rhea: Yes... I am reminded of the past... of reuniting in Enbarr...
Seteth: It is truly nostalgic. I would love nothing more than to lose ourselves in memories of the old days, but... I must tell you something, Rhea. We have received incredible news, albeit from the Empire. They have told us the identity of our enemy. Those who slither in the dark... It is time for us to stop hiding the truth about the goddess—the progenitor god. The truth about us. It is time for us to tell the people everything.
Rhea: Those who slither in the dark...
Flayn: We are told they despise the children of the goddess, as well as those who live above ground. They are planning something horrible.
Rhea: ...
Seteth: Please, tell the professor everything about these vile people. There must be things that only you know.
Rhea: I understand. Dear child... I will now tell you all that I know. It is true that there is a group of people who have slithered in the darkness and threatened the peace of Fódlan since ancient times. I am sure you have heard the stories of a man named Nemesis...
Byleth: The King of Liberation...
Byleth: The wielder of the Sword of the Creator...
Seteth: Nemesis, the King of Liberation... The man who received the Sword of the Creator from the goddess and became a hero. However...
Rhea: Nemesis was originally the leader of a group of bandits. He plundered the Holy Tomb and stole the remains of the progenitor god. When Nemesis appeared in Zanado some time later, he already wielded the Sword of the Creator.
Byleth: In Zanado?
Seteth: The Red Canyon. We journeyed there five years ago. Do you recall?
Byleth: How did he get the Sword of the Creator?
Rhea: The legend that the goddess gifted him the sword so that he could fight the wicked gods...is false. That story was created after the fact.
Rhea: I do not know how Nemesis obtained the sword, or why he appeared in Zanado. But he used that sword to massacre the people there. The children of the progenitor god. From their corpses he gained even more power, and brought war to Fódlan... A mere bandit like Nemesis would not have been capable of anything so monstrous on his own...
Seteth: It was surmised that someone was collaborating with Nemesis, and there was a massive investigation to uncover who it was. But the truth was never discovered. I am now certain that his accomplices were Those who slither in the dark. And this time, they have utilized the imperial army to send Fódlan back into the flames of war...
Flayn: So, Edelgard has made a temporary alliance with them in order to achieve her own aims... Professor, we must journey to Shambhala and stop them!

Rhea: You must not allow Fódlan's bloody history... the Red Canyon Tragedy... to repeat itself...
/***EOF***/
@Opening 
Having repelled the Imperial vanguard, the resistance army, in desperate need of troops, seeks help from Judith, head of House Daphnel - the governing body in the northwestern regions of Alliance territory.

@Dialogue 
Seteth: Ah, it's you.
Flayn: We were just talking about Rhea...
Seteth: We have searched for five long years but have not found a trace of her. It is possible that she is sleeping somewhere... Just as you were sleeping all those years.
Byleth: Is that what you think?
Seteth: That is my current theory, yes.
Byleth: Perhaps. 
Flayn: Do you think so? I truly hope that is the case.
Seteth: We have moved against the Empire with the intent of defeating them, but have not given up hope of recovering Rhea. If she is alive, we will find her. Rhea is like family to us...and to you, as well. Please, lend me your strength...

Seteth: The messenger we sent to Daphnel returned with a reply. Please, read it at once.

Judith: I understand your situation. I will help you with whatever strength I have to spare. But there is a problem. Openly marshaling soldiers within my territory could provoke other members of the Alliance. Therefore, I will secretly gather troops in Ailell, the Valley of Torment. Will your group be able to receive the soldiers in this location? From there, it should be safe to return to the monastery by following the border between the Alliance and the Kingdom.
Byleth: Ailell, the Valley of Torment...
Seteth: Ailell is a deep valley located on the border of the Kingdom and the Alliance. People stay far away. There, we can meet without anyone finding out. It is decided. Make plans to meet up with our reinforcements at once.

Church Soldier: Ailell, the Valley of Torrment...

@Conversation 
Ferdinand: Some day we will take the Imperial capital. It is odd to think that I will be invading the very city that I once called home. Ah, that is still a ways off. I will prepare for our journey to Ailell.



Linhardt: I never do get used to the sight of blood. It always makes me feel as if I might faint. I suppose I've told you that though, yes? I've no idea how you cope with it. I hope this war ends soon. I dislike being lightheaded because other people are bleeding everywhere. Though the thought of working hard for it does sound like quite a pain...



Caspar: I didn't think we'd end up fighting Randolph... He's my uncle. Well, not by blood, so... I guess I can handle it.
Byleth: I'm still worried about you.
Caspar: Don't worry about me. I'm ready for anything.
Byleth: You're very resolute. 
Caspar: Don't worry about me. I'm ready for anything.

Bernadetta: Ailell, the Valley of Torment? What kind of a name for a place is that? It sounds scary. Do I really have to go with you? Hey, um, here's an idea... Maybe let the recluse stay home and hold the fort!



Dorothea: Hey, Professor, thanks for your hard work again! Nothing to report today! Was I convincing? Was it like he was standing right in front of you? Some things are the same as they were five years ago, but I guess a lot more has changed...



Petra: Since the past, I have learned much of the language of Fódlan. But speaking the Fódlan language still gives me difficulty. I can understand, read, and write with nearly perfection now. But understanding and speaking are...fruits of a different color.
Byleth: That's part of your charm. 
Petra: I have gratitude for you, Professor. I hope that I will have fluency one day.
Byleth: Everyone has a weak spot.
Petra: Yes. I will keep practicing more.



Felix: Some in Faerghus believe Dimitri is still alive. My father is one such eccentric. Hmph, they can't accept reality. Dimitri is dead. He's not coming back.



Sylvain: Ailell, the Valley of Torment. Aw, man... I really do not want to go there.
Byleth: Pull yourself together.
Sylvain: Professor, have you ever been to Ailell? If you had, you'd know. That place is crazy hot! For guys like me who grew up somewhere cold? Man... It's gonna be rough. Though, I guess that climate will keep our enemies at bay.
Byleth: Why not? 
Sylvain: That place is crazy hot! For guys like me who grew up somewhere cold? Man... It's gonna be rough. Though, I guess that climate will keep our enemies at bay.



Mercedes: We may not be students anymore, but it's still important to read. We might even learn something that's useful for our next battle.
Byleth: Studying is important.
Mercedes: I couldn't agree more! I hope the Officers Academy reopens when the war is over.
Byleth: Training is important too.
Mercedes: I suppose that may be true. I always try my best at both.
Mercedes: It's a shame the monastery was ruined, but... At least the books are still intact!



Annette: Professor, is it really OK to rely on Judith? I hear there are still quarrels within the Alliance... This generous offer of soldiers and supplies seems a little too good to be true. I mean, it's also really impressive, but I'm just a little worried, I suppose...



Ingrid: My family, the Galateas, are an offshoot of the Daphnel family. The family split in half when two brothers quarreled over an inheritance. Despite blood relations, the families lived apart from one another, so the relationship has been distant and somewhat estranged. I'm not so much acquainted with Judith, the head of House Daphnel.



Raphael: Sharing her food with us for nothing in return? Judith really is a great person! She's more like a goddess than the goddess is!
Byleth: She is very much like a goddess. 
Raphael: I never met her, so I don't know for sure, but she must be beautiful and kind.
Byleth: I'm not sure about that.
Raphael: No? Well, she can be a demon for all I care, so long as she feeds me!



Ignatz: The Valley of Torment... I'd heard of it, but I never expected to go there. It's exciting! I wonder what the landscape is like.
Byleth: It sounds dangerous.
Ignatz: It probably is dangerous, but I still want to get there and see it as soon as I can.
Byleth: It sounds painful. 
Ignatz: Hmm, that is an interesting point... The name does seem to suggest that.



Lysithea: Ailell, the Valley of Torment, lies on the border of three noble territories. The Kingdom's Fraldarius and Galatea families, and the Alliance's Daphnel family. In the Fraldarius lands to the north, the former Kingdom army and new duke's army are fighting.



Marianne: Valley of Torment... Valley of Torment...
Byleth: Something wrong? 
Marianne: I once read a book full of legends surrounding Ailell, but I can't seem to remember...
Byleth: Are you chanting some sort of curse?
Marianne: N-no... I'm trying to remember the legends surrounding Ailell...



Hilda: My big brother told me stories of Judith's bravery. With just one look, she tamed a runaway horse that nobody else had been able to touch. When an Almyran general provoked her, she talked him into a tearful apology. She's spectacular. I wish she'd fight alongside us.



Leonie: You're not a teacher anymore, and we're not your students, but everyone still calls you Professor. Is there something you'd rather be called?
Byleth: Professor is fine.
Leonie: Guess that's what we're used to, huh? All right.
Byleth: Call me by my name. 
Leonie: Oh? All right, then. I'll call you--ugh. Nope! Sorry, can't do it. Too weird.



Seteth: Meeting reinforcements in the Valley of Torment seems like an astute decision to me. In that land of oppressive heat, it is unlikely that we will be disturbed. It also means we will contend with those harsh conditions ourselves, however. Best ensure we are well prepared.



Flayn: It has been only five years, yet so much has changed. Half of the Kingdom has fallen to the Empire, Skirmishes are rife throughout the Alliance. Despite such tumult, we look upon the same sky, unchanged by the storm happening beneath it.
Byleth: Do you wish you could return to those days?
Flayn: Yes, it would be nice, I suppose. Things were... simpler then. Or so they seemed to be, at the time.
Byleth: It's true--it's just like it was all those years ago. 
Flayn: Indeed. I gazed up at this same sky with Mother and Father. It does not feel so long ago at all. Wait, but how would you know, Professor?



Hanneman: The monastery repairs have made solid progress. Most excellent news. When we first returned here, I was unsure what we were going to do with the ruins of this place... But if we can get the cathedral rebuilt, we'll have it looking just like old times soon enough.



Manuela: Hearing that an old student has died cuts me right to the heart... As this war with the Empire continues, we'll see more of it, Professor. We have a duty to fight alongside our students. We taught them how to fight, after all. Now, let's help them win!



Alois: Even though we're getting reinforcements, we should still be prepared for the worst. Never shirk your training, no matter what. To practice, I'm going to chop something up with my sword. Unless you'd like to train together! Care to spar?



Catherine: I've heard people talk about the Hero of Daphnel. If the stories of her courage are true, no one will be able to stand against us. In different circumstances, I'd have wanted to try crossing swords with her. Right now, we have to focus on getting those reinforcements. Let's hope nothing goes wrong.



Shamir: There are enemy spies around. Remain vigilant. Capture anyone who seems suspicious.
Byleth: To kill them?
Shamir: What else would we do with them?
Byleth: All right, I will. 
Shamir: I'm glad you understand. I'm counting on you.



Cyril: Gotta clean out the storerooms, tend the flowers, do the washing, dust the library...
Byleth: That sounds like a lot of work.
Cyril: Well, it's my job, ya know? Gotta do your job.
Byleth: Do you need any help? 
Cyril: Nah, this is my job. Lady Rhea herself gave it to me. Even if Lady Rhea's not here right now, I still gotta do my duty.
Cyril: Like you. You gotta have other stuff you oughta be doing, yeah?



Anna: There's unrest everywhere these days. All of my fellow merchants seem to be endangered. I hope things go back to normal soon. People need more to smile about, aside from my great deals.



Gatekeeper: Greetings, Professor! Nothing to report! Is everyone setting out on a big campaign? Not exactly? Ah, so you're meeting up with the reinforcements. Well, you can leave guarding this place to me! I'll keep an eye out for anything suspicious!

@Opening 
In response to the resistance army's plea, Judith has agreed to provide soldiers. To meet up with the reinforcements, the resistance army sets out for Ailell, the Valley of Torment. Unbeknownst to them, something else awaits them there...

@Intro 
Linhardt: I'm overheated and have changed my mind. I'd like to return to my cozy bed now.
Bernadetta: Who knew somewhere so hot existed in Fódlan. I wonder if it's OK to walk everywhere...
Ferdinand: Just use the superior emotional fortitude of nobility. And, well...be very careful.
Seteth: It is said that this land was born of the goddess's wrath. There was an immense battle here long ago. To end it, she set the entire valley aflame. Of course, there is no record of this. Some theorize this was done by another and then blamed on the goddess...
Petra: My head is being defeated by this heat. I think I am seeing visions... There, within the mountains... A shadow...
Caspar: That's just the-- Whoa. I see it too.
Seteth: It appears to be a military force...but in a different location than the one we agreed to.
Byleth: It's an enemy raid.
Seteth: They are dressed like Kingdom soldiers... They fooled us!
Byleth: They might be allies. 
Seteth: Hold a moment... They are dressed like Kingdom soldiers! Is this an ambush?
Shamir: Damn... I thought we had disposed of all the spies.
Catherine: They carry the flag of House Rowe... They've joined the Empire, then. To think they'd travel all this way.
Seteth: Are you ready to confront them, Professor?
Byleth: I'm worried about Judith.
Seteth: As am I. We have no reason to believe she was intercepted en route, but we must act quickly. Let us take them down and locate Judith's army!
Byleth: We must break through.
Seteth: Yes, we must defeat them quickly and locate Judith's army.
Seteth: They have chosen the Valley of Torment for this battle, and so we shall send them to the flames of eternity!

@Opening 
Your party travels to Ailell, the Valley of Torment, to meet up with allied troops and secure reinforcements. It should have been a safe march...

@Battle 
Gwendal: The Valley of Torment... Perhaps a good place to finish off my life as a knight. Only if that puny force of children is able to kill me, of course...
Seteth: That lion banner--it seems Gwendal is the one leading the troops of House Rowe. He is an experienced general, renowned throughout Faerghus. Let us hold nothing back.

Seteth: This is Ailell, the Valley of Torment. Expect this smoke and fire to assail us at every turn. Touching the flames of torment will get you worse than a scorching. Proceed carefully.

Gwendal: The Crest of Flames? Ha! Quite full of themselves, aren't they?
Ashe: Just as I thought--the professor's army. But it's too late to back out now. In Lonato's place, I have to do my duty.

Kingdom Soldier: Here we go! Attack them from both sides!

Judith: Oh, old Gwendal is here. And he doesn't look to be an ally...
Gwendal: Oh, the Hero of Daphnel is here! I'll expect more from her than the young ones...
Defeat Conditions: All of your units fall in battle, or Judith is defeated.

@Battle-Talk 
%Byleth,Judith
Judith: You... No, let's leave the pleasantries for later. First, I want you to take this. It's nothing important, but it may prove useful.

@Boss 
Ashe: Forgive me... But as Lonato's son, I have a duty!

%Byleth,Ashe
Ashe: I don't want to fight you, Professor... But this is how it has to be. There's no turning back.

@Boss
Ashe: I know this is it, but... I don't want to die...

Ashe: You want to spare me? Why? I'll... I'll do it. I'll join your side. Let me fight for you.

Gwendal: Does a whelp like you really expect to kill me? I am Gwendal, the Gray Lion, a knight by the hand of Count Rowe! Do your worst!

Gwendal: Ah, so I have found a place to die... Young ones... I thank you...
Seteth: That was quite a predicament. But now we can see to the objective we had in mind.

@End 
Judith: To think we'd get into a scrap here of all places. We're lucky we all made it out alive.
Byleth: I'm sorry for involving you in this.
Judith: Don't worry about it. In this day and age, it's a miracle I've been unscathed this long.
Byleth: I see why they call you a hero.
Judith: Well, that's ancient history.
Judith: So you're that professor everyone talks about. You're just as Claude described.
Byleth: Claude?
Judith: He asked me to help you because you seemed trustworthy.
Byleth: That professor everyone talks about?
Judith: You used to teach at the Officers Academy five years back, right? I guess you didn't teach Claude, though. He asked me to help you because you seemed trustworthy.
Seteth: Claude of the Alliance? How did he learn of our plans? We can't underestimate someone like him... There is a reason they call him the Master Tactician. But I suppose we are both fighting against the Empire now. The enemy of our enemy is our ally.
Judith: That's right. I have a letter from him as well.
Judith: It's up to you to decide how to use it.
Seteth: That is yours, Professor. Please tell me what it says when you see fit.
Judith: OK, let's wrap up this hand-off of soldiers. Not that I suspect you of anything, but... I must warn you that these are very important soldiers for my territory. Don't treat them like expendable equipment.
Judith: Oh. By the way, I have some important information. A witness saw Lady Rhea being dragged off by the Imperial Army after the battle five years ago.
Alois: Are you sure your source is reliable?
Judith: One of my own saw it happen. I'm certain.
Alois: It seems we chose wisely when decided to fight against the Empire.
Seteth: Thank you for the information. We will rescue her at all costs.

Seteth: Now that we have reinforcements, it is time to advance against the Empire. And yet, we do not have enough troops to face our enemy's main army head-on. We have no choice but to use our small numbers wisely by taking over key locations as we blaze our way to the Imperial capital.
Byleth: It's an easy win. 
Seteth: Do not indulge in being overly optimistic. It would be our ruin.
Byleth: It will be a fierce fight.
Seteth: Yes, it will. We must brace ourselves.
Seteth: As you know, the Oghma Mountains lie south of Garreg Mach, towards the Empire. In order to enter Empire territory, we must travel around those mountains. There are two possible routes--through the Kingdom to the west, and through the Alliance to the east.
Byleth: Let's go west.
Seteth: The western half of the Kingdom is under the Empire's control. It may be too dangerous to pass through there. I suggest we take the eastern route, for safety.
Byleth: Let's go east.
Seteth: Yes, that makes sense.
Seteth: There are lords in the Alliance who support the Empire, but they are, at least, not completely under their control. Furthermore, you hold a key to the Empire within your grasp.
Byleth: Claude's letter?
Seteth: Yes, precisely.
Byleth: The Sword of the Creator?
Byleth: My charm?
Seteth: This is no time for tomfoolery. I am referring to the letter from Claude.
Claude: Hey there, Teach. It's been a while, hasn't it? I never dared to imagine you might still be alive. Wonders never cease! I don't know exactly why, but I feel that I can trust you. So I'm going to do just that. To that end, I propose an exchange. You're intending to invade the Empire. That much is clear. And that means your only option is to pass through the east. You'll have to cross the Airmid River, which runs along the border between the Empire and the Alliance. That means you'll need to gain control of the Great Bridge of Myrddin, the one closest to Garreg Mach. It just so happens that my family, House Riegan, is in conflict with House Gloucester right now. It would be easy enough for us to eliminate them, but I would prefer that we settle things without it coming to that. Do you see where I'm going with this? We'll act as a distraction and draw House Gloucester away from there. That will allow you to cross through their territory and take the Great Bridge of Myrddin. After you take the bridge from the Imperial army, House Gloucester won't be able to receive their aid. You'll get to cross Myrddin without any trouble, and I'll be able to maintain stability in the Alliance. Not a bad deal, eh? I hope to hear from you soon. Be well, Teach.
Seteth: The Master Tactician, indeed. Somehow he is already aware of our plan. The conditions are not bad... All is he says it is. If we take the Great Bridge of Myrddin, and House Gloucester bows down to House Riegan... The route from the monastery to the Empire will be much safer for our forces.
Byleth: Let's do it.
Seteth: It seems you are decided. We will send our answer at once.
Byleth: I'm suspicious.
Seteth: I am afraid we have no choice, considering the circumstances...
/***EOF***/
