Save And Continue
Save And Quit
Do Not Save And Continue
You can't enter with something following you.
Link, I'm going out for a while.I'll be back by morning. Don't leave the house.
Unnh... Link, I didn't want you involved in this...I told you not to leave the house... Take my sword and shield and listen.You can focus power in the blade (hold the B Button). ...Then release it using the secret technique handed down by our people... Link, you can do it! Save the Princess... Zelda is your... ... ...
What're you doing up this late, kid?You can stay up when you're grown up!Now go home!
I see you brought a map so you don't get lost.(Press the X Button to see your map).
You look strong for a kid.How much can you lift?(Press the A Button while touching a thing to lift it.)
I'll bet you can't wait until you are old enough to use a sword! (Press the B Button to use your sword when you get it.)
That mark on your map must be your destination.You can often find valuables in chests.(Press the A Button in front of a chest to open it.)
Us soldiers have been around, kid.You can learn a lot from us.But you already know that!
Meet the elder of the village and get the Master Sword.
Princess Zelda, you are safe! Is this your doing, Link?
I sense that a mighty evil force guides the wizard's actions and augments his magical power.The only weapon potent enough to defeat the wizard is the legendary Master Sword. It is said that the village elder is a descendant of one of the seven wise men.Maybe he can tell you more... I will mark his house on your map.But watch your every move!I am certain that the castle soldiers will be looking for you now!... ... ... I will hide Princess Zelda here. Do not worry!Seek the elder! ... ... ... Do you understand? (Yes / Not at all)
If you defeat the wizard, the soldiers may regain their sanity. Go, seek the Pendants!
Take the three Pendants into the Lost Woods.The Master Sword awaits you there.
Link!You are a second too late.I have failed... Zelda... The soldiers have abducted her. They have taken her to the castle. You must find her before the wizard works his magic. Please...You are our only hope...
Thank you, Link.I had a feeling you were getting close.
Yes, it was Link who helped me escape from the dungeon! When I was captive the wizard said, "Once I have finished with you, the final one, the seal of the wise men will open." ... ... ... Link, you must not let the land of Hyrule fall into the wizard's clutches. If he releases the seal of the seven wise men, evil power will overwhelm this land. Before that happens... before it's too late... destroy the wizard before he destroys all of Hyrule!You can do it! You can...
Link, be careful out there! I know you can save Hyrule!
Help me... Please help me... I am a prisoner in the dungeon of the castle. My name is Zelda. The wizard, Agahnim, has done... something to the other missing girls.Now only I remain... Agahnim has seized control of the castle and is now trying to open the seven wise men's seal.... ... I am in the dungeon of the castle. Please help me...
Help me... I am in the dungeon of the castle. I know there is a hidden path from outside ofthe castle to the garden inside.
There is a secret passage in the throne room that leads to Sanctuary.I'm sure the old man there will help us.
That ornamental shelf should open.Do you have a light? It's pitch dark inside and you can't see without one. If you're ready, let's go! Help me push it from the left!
You have to pull the lever to open the door.(Press the A Button and hold Down on the Control Pad. )
All right,let's get out of here before the wizard notices.I know a secret path, but first we have to go to the first floor.Let's go!
Link, listen carefully.The wizard is magically controlling all the soldiers in the castle. I fear the worst for my father... The wizard is an inhuman fiend with strong magical powers! ... ... ... Do you understand? (Yes / Not at all)
You should follow the marks the elder made on your map when you explore. If you don't know what to do next, you can also visit a fortune teller.
Link, you are wonderful! As I thought, you have the power of the Hero inside you! Now, you should get the Master Sword.I am confident that you can defeat the evil wizard!
Link!Help!The soldiers are coming to Sanctuary! AIEEEEEEE! ... ... ...
After passing through these sewers, we will be very close to Sanctuary! Let's be careful!
Sanctuary is just beyond that door.Pull the switch over there.
Who? Oh, it's you, Link! What can I do for you, young man?The elder?Oh, no one has seen him since the wizard began collecting victims... ... ... ... What?Master Sword?Well, I don't remember the details exactly, but...
Long ago, a prosperous people known as the Hylia inhabited this land... Legends tell of many treasures that the Hylia hid throughout the land... The Master Sword, a mighty blade forged against those with evil hearts, is one of them.People say that now it is sleeping deep in the forest... ... ... ... Do you understand the legend? (Yes / Not at all)
Anyway, look for the elder. There must be someone in the village who knows where he is. You take care now, Link...
Ohhh,Link.You've changed! You look marvelous...Please save us from Agahnim the wizard!
Hey!Here is Link, the wanted man!Soldiers!Anyone! Come quickly!
Incredible!At last you have the three Pendants...Now, you should go to the Lost Woods. If you are the true Hero, the sword itself will select you. ... ... ...
I am too old to fight. I can only rely on you.
I am, indeed, Sahasrahla, the village elder and a descendent of the seven wise men. ... ...  Oh really? Link, I am surprised a young man like you is searching for the sword of evil's bane. Not just anyone can use that weapon.Legends say only the Hero who has won the three Pendants can wield the sword. ... ... ... Do you really want to find it? (Yeah! / Of Course!)
Good.As a test, can you retrieve the Pendant Of Courage from the East Palace? If you bring it here, I will tell you more of the legend and give you a magical artifact. t Now, go forward to the palace.
Other relatives of the wise men are hiding from the evil wizard's followers. You should find them.
Link, it is I, Sahasrahla. I am communicating to you across the void through telepathy...The place where you now stand was the Golden Land, but evil power turned it into the Dark World.The wizard has broken the wise men's seal and opened a gate to link the worlds at Hyrule Castle.In order to save this half of the world, the Light World, you must win back the Golden Power.You must also rescue the seven maidens who Agahnim sent to the Dark World.As members of the blood-line of the seven wise men, they have power that will surely help you. The maidens are locked in hidden dungeons full of evil creatures and dangerous traps. The Palace of Darkness should be your first goal in this world! t Link, I can rely on only you.Please make this old man's wishes come true. I beg you!
But I sense your helplessness... Before you go any further, find the Moon Pearl on Death Mountain.It will protect you from the Dark World's magic so you can keep your heroic figure.
A helpful item is hidden in the cave on the east side of Lake Hylia.Get it!
Oh!?You got the Pendant Of Courage!Now I will tell you more of the legend... Three or four generations ago, an order of knights protected the royalty of the Hylia. These Knights Of Hyrule were also guardians of the Pendant Of Courage. Unfortunately, most of them were destroyed in the great war against evil that took place when the seven wise men created their seal.Among the descendants of the Knights Of Hyrule a hero must appear. ...I see.Link, I believe you. You should get the remaining Pendants. And carry this with you. This is a treasure passed down by the families of the wise men.I want you to have it.
You are correct, young man! I am Sahasrahla, the village elder and a descendent of the seven wise men. ... ... ... What? Link, I'm surprised a young man like you is looking for the sword of evil's bane.Not just anyone can use that sword. According to the tales handed down by the Hylia, only the Hero who has destroyed three great evils and won the three Pendants can wield the sword... ... ... ... I see you have acquired the Pendant of Courage.I will tell you about the legend behind it. Three or four generations ago, an order of knights protected the royalty of the Hylia. These Knights Of Hyrule were also guardians of the Pendant Of Courage. Unfortunately, most of them were destroyed in the great war against evil that took place when the seven wise men created their seal.Among the descendants of the Knights Of Hyrule a hero must appear. ...I see.Link, I believe you. You should get the remaining Pendants. And carry this with you. This is a treasure passed down by the families of the wise men.I want you to have it.
I will give 100 Rupees to the man who finds the descendants of the wise men. THE KING
WANTED!This is the criminal who kidnapped Zelda. Call a soldier if you see him!
DANGER! Do not enter Death Mountain without the King's permission!
This way to the Lost Woods
DANGER! Beware of deep water and Zora!
Welcome to the Magic Shop. The Waterfall Of Wishing is just ahead.
This cave leads to the path back to Kakariko Village.
This way (S) Lake Hylia Shop
This way (W) Kakariko Village
This way (W) Desert Of Mystery
This way (N E) Magic Shop  Waterfall Of Wishing
This way (E) Eastern Palace This way (W) Hyrule Castle
Lake Hylia
Pay no attention to the average middle-aged man standing by this sign. Leave him alone!
The House Of Lumberjacks A. Bumpkin and B. Bumpkin
This way (S) Kakariko Village
Double, double toil and trouble, fire burn and cauldron bubble... Making mushroom brew, I am...
Heh heh...Thank you, young man...Come back to the shop later for something good... Heh heh...
Mmmmm...The smell of rotten fruit...If you give me that Mushroom, I can finish my brew. Heh heh...
If you want to buy the potion, you should bring a bottle to put it in...He he he!
Red is the medicine of life. Green is the medicine of magic. Blue renews both life and magic. Here, taste a sample of the Red Potion...He he!
Without a magic bottle, you can not buy any potions. He he he!
No,no,no...I can't put anything into a full bottle. He he he!
You got the Lamp! Now you can light torches and see your way in darkness.
You got the Boomerang! Give it a try!(To select an item, press the Start Button. )
You found the Bow! You can shoot arrows until you run out!
You borrowed a shovel! You can dig in many places. You never know what you'll find!
This is the Magic Cape! You are invisible when you wear it! Watch your Magic Meter!
This is Magic Powder! Try to sprinkle it on enemies and many other things!
You bought Zora's Flippers! With these you should be able to swim even in deep water!
You got the Power Glove! You can feel strength in both hands!You can pick up and carry stones now!
You won the Pendant Of Courage!Take it to Sahasrahla! Two Pendants remain!
You won the Pendant Of Power! Your goal of finding three Pendants is in sight! Go for the last one!
You won the Pendant Of Wisdom! With this, you have collected all three Pendants!Go now to the Lost Woods to get the Master Sword!
This Mushroom smells like sweet rotten fruit... You can give this to anyone who wants it (Select it and press the Y Button).
You found the Book of Mudora! You can use it to read the ancient language of the Hylia!
You found the Moon Pearl! This protects The Hero from the changing effects of the Golden Power.
You found the Compass! Now you can pinpoint the lair of the dungeon's evil master!
You got the Map! You can use it to see your current position and the rest of the dungeon (Press X).
You found the Ice Rod! Its chill magic blasts the air! But watch your Magic Meter!
You found the Fire Rod! This rod commands the red fire! But watch your Magic Meter!
This is the Ether Medallion! Its magic controls the upper atmosphere and polar wind! Watch your Magic Meter!
This is the Bombos Medallion! Its magic makes the ground explode with power! Watch your Magic Meter!
This is the Quake Medallion! Its magic causes the ground to shake and defeats nearby enemies! Watch your Magic Meter!
You got the Magic Hammer! You can drive the wooden stakes down into the ground! You can use it to pound on other things too!
Oh!Here is the Flute! Its music surely has some mysterious power!
You got the Cane Of Somaria! It will be very helpful if you make proper use of it! What a mysterious cane!
BOING!This is the Hook Shot! It extends and contracts and... BOING!It can grapple many things!
You got some Bombs! You can pick up and throw a Bomb you placed (Press the A Button)!
This is a Magic Bottle! You can store an item inside and then use it later!
You got the Big Key! This is the master key of the dungeon.It can open many locks that small keys cannot.
You got the Titan's Mitt! Now you can lift the heaviest stones that were once impossible to budge.
He gave you the Magic Mirror! This mirror is blue, clear and beautiful... You feel like it is going to absorb you into another world...
This is it!The Master Sword! ......... No, this can't be it... Too bad.
Suddenly, Sahasrahla contacts you telepathically... ......... Link, it is extraordinary that you won the Master Sword that makes evil retreat... With this shining sword, I believe you can deflect the wizard's evil powers. The destiny of this land is in your hands. Please, Link...
Heh heh heh...Thank you! This is the Medicine of Life. Use it to regain your Life power.
Heh heh heh...Thank you! This is the Medicine of Magic. You can recharge your mystic energy with it.
Heh heh heh...Thank you! This is the Medicine of Life and Magic!You can recover both!
You borrowed the Bug Catching Net!There may be some other things you can catch with it, too.
You found the Blue Mail! This armor reduces the damage that you take from enemies!
You found the Red Mail! This provides even better protection than the Blue Mail!
Great!Your sword is stronger! You can feel the sheer power flowing through your body!
You found the Mirror Shield! You can now reflect beams that your old shield couldn't block!
You got the Cane Of Byrna! If you swing it once, a ring of light will protect you!
Eh?It's locked! If you had the Big Key, you might be able to open it!
You are short on Magic Power! You can't use this item now. Watch your Magic Meter!
He gives you the Pegasus Shoes!Now you can execute a devastating dash attack! (Hold the A Button for a short time.)
Wow!I haven't seen a normal person in a few hundred years! Let me talk to you for a while.
Do you know about the Gargoyle statue in the village? People say they can hear a girl calling for help from under the statue.Isn't that a strange story...
Surprisingly, the Triforce created this world to fulfill Ganon's wish. What is Ganon's wish, you ask?It is to rule the entire cosmos!Don't you think it might be possible with the power of the Triforce behind you?
I once lived in the Lost Woods, until the day I wandered into a magic transporter... The power of the Dark World quickly turned me into this tree shape... I guess the two forests are connected with each other...
I heard that using Bombs is the best way to defeat the one-eyed giants. That's all I know!
Quit bothering me!And watch where you're going when you dash around!
You got the Pendant Of Power! You have now collected all three Pendants!Go forth now to the Lost Woods for the Master Sword!
You got the Pendant Of Wisdom! Again your power has increased! Now, go for the last one!
Well howdy, Light Worlder! You look like a straight shooter...Want to try your skill in my shooting gallery? I'll give you five shots for 20 Rupees.If you're as sharp as I think you are, you stand to rake in the Rupees. How about it, stranger? (Play / No way)
All right!Aim carefully! Ready?GO!
Well little partner, you can turn yourself right around and leave the same way you came in. See you later!Have a nice day!
Want to shoot again? (Continue / Quit)
--POND OF HAPPINESS-- Throw some Rupees in and your wishes will surely come true. Do you want to throw Rupees? (Throw a few / Don't feel like it)
Select an item using the Control Pad and throw it using the Y Button.
Hello there.Did you drop this? (Yes / No, I didn't)
I like an honest person. I will give you something better in return.
Are you sure this is not yours? (Really, it isn't / To tell the truth, it is)
Now,now, don't tell me a lie. Please take it back.
You got the Magical Boomerang! You can throw this faster and farther than your old one!
Your shield is improved! Now you can defend yourself against fireballs!
These are the Silver Arrows you need to defeat Ganon!
She filled your bottle with the Medicine Of Magic.To get such a potion free is quite a bargain!
Your sword is stronger! You can feel its power throbbing in your hand!
Happiness increased X Rupees. In total, your Happiness is X. You became happier by one step.
I will make your wish come true. (I want to carry more Bombs / I want to carry more Arrows)
Then I will increase your carrying ability so you can carry X Bombs at maximum. This is just a small happiness I can give to you.
Then I will increase your carrying ability so you can carry X Arrows at maximum. This is just a small happiness I can give to you.
I cannot grant any more wishes for you, but a friend of mine might be able to... She lives in the Waterfall Of Wishing near Zora's lake. I will return your Rupees to you.May you be happy...
Uhhh...Watch your step. There are holes in the ground. Could you turn right here? Young man, are you also going to the mountain to look for the Golden Power? Just ahead is a mountain full of monsters.Many people have vanished in this mountain while looking for the Golden Power. I don't want to steer you wrong, so please don't get too involved in such a mad quest.
Uhh...There must be a Heart in the bottle.
Uhh...Turn right here... ... You know, I have a granddaughter who is your age...The King took her to the castle and she never returned. Kidnapping those maidens must be part of the wizard's plot! I'm sure he is trying to somehow use the power of the descendants of the wise men...
I don't know who you are, but if you are going to go up the mountain, will you take me with you?I lost my lamp, so...
The missing maidens are still alive somewhere.I believe that a Hero will rescue them... I wait for that day... Uhh...These are dangerous times...I talked too much. Anyway...Thank you for your kindness to an old man like me. Uhh...I wanted to give you this.If you wander into a magical transporter, gaze into this mirror.
The wizard has deceived the King, and now he is trying to open the way to the Dark World.To complete your quest, you will need the Moon Pearl, which is in the tower on top of the mountain. All I can do for you now is to comfort your weariness... Come back here any time.
The Moon Pearl will protect its bearer from the magical air of the Golden Land, so you can keep your human shape there. All I can do for you now is comfort your weariness... Come back here any time.
Link, I think the wizard connected the two worlds somewhere around the castle. All I can do for you now is to comfort your weariness... Come back here any time.
...mumble mumble...My son really liked to play the flute, but he went to look for the Golden Power and has not returned... ... ... I wonder where he is and what he is doing now?... ...ZzzzzzZzzzzz
...mumble mumble...Oh?This is my son's flute...! Did you meet my son? Where is he?Is he all right? ... ... ... ... Oh, I see...Well, I can tell what you want to say by the look in your eyes...
Would you keep the flute? And will you play its sweet melody for the bird in the village square? I beg of you, please! My son would probably want it this way... ...But still, I wish I could see him once more...
ZzzzzzzZzzzzzzz ......... SnoreZzzzzzZzzzzz
Oh, Link.The rumors say you kidnapped the Princess, but I still trust you.
I can't believe you caught me! With your speed it must have been easy to kidnap Zelda... You don't look like such a bad guy, though... Anyway, because you have such quick feet, it might be a good idea to run and bash into many things... For example, the trees in this village have many useful things hanging in their branches... Well, just try it, OK?!
If you have enough time to read this sign, you should go to the goal immediately!
I'll give a piece of Heart to the person who wears the Cape.
Curses to anyone who throws something into my circle of stones.
This way (N) Skeleton Forest This way S Village Of Outcasts
This way (E) Cave
This way (E) Palace Of Darkness
This way (W) Bomb Shop
(W) Swamp Of Evil   No Entrance   No Escape
This is the Village Of Outcasts. People without Rupees are not welcome here.
The Waterfall Of Wishing is just around the corner.
This way (EN) Lake Of Ill Omen
After Agahnim took over, everyone began to act strangely. I suppose it's only a matter of time before I'm affected, too.
Hey hey!You're not allowed in the castle, son! Go home and get some sleep!
Link, it is I, Sahasrahla.I can talk to you telepathically when you touch these tiles. Here is a hint.You can use the treasure hidden in this palace to defeat armored foes.
Link, it is I, Sahasrahla the elder.An orb known as the Moon Pearl is in this tower. Whoever holds the Moon Pearl is protected so that his form will not change in the Dark World. You must find it and escape from the tower! Don't forget the Moon Pearl...
The Hero's triumph on Cataclysm's Eve Wins three symbols of virtue. The Master Sword he will then retrieve, Keeping the Knight's line true.
Link, it is I, Sahasrahla. You must somehow make your way to the top of Spectacle Rock.From there you can reach the Tower of Hera on top of Death Mountain.
Link, it is I, Sahasrahla. Objects exist simultaneously in both worlds with similar shapes. If the form of a thing changes, it will affect the shape of its twin in the other world.
Link...It's me, Zelda... Don't be deceived by the magic of Blind the Thief!Be careful!
Link,it is I, Sahasrahla the elder!You must set fire to four torches to open the way forward.
To open the way to go forward, Make your wish here And it will be granted.
When Ganon is stunned, give him his last moment with a Silver Arrow! Do you understand, Link?
Link, can you hear me? It's me, Zelda.I am locked in Turtle Rock on top of Death Mountain.I know you are doing your best, but please hurry...
Link, it is I, Sahasrahla. You must never fail to find all the treasures in each dungeon.
Listen well, Link. Even with the Master Sword, you cannot inflict physical harm on the wizard. You must find a way to return his own evil magic power to him.
Link, do not use all your magic power if you do not possess the Medicine Of Magic. Now, get ready to go into the depths of this dungeon.
Link, do you possess the Medicine of Magic?If not, I recommend against going any further.
Link, the magic flames will protect you inside this icy dungeon.
You cannot destroy the Skeleton Knight with the sword alone.When he collapses, he is vulnerable to another weapon.
Link, it is I, Sahasrahla the elder.I have some advice... In the dungeons, you can gaze into the Magic Mirror to return to the entrance at any time. Do not forget this!
My name is Chris Houlihan. This is my top secret room. Keep it between us, OK?
You caught a bee! What will you do? (Keep it in a bottle / Set it free)
You caught a faerie! What will you do? (Keep it in a bottle / Set it free)
You don't have any empty bottles.You have no choice... Just set it free.
This try your time was X minutes X seconds.
If you can reach the goal within 15 seconds, we will give you something good. Ready, Set... ...GO!
You qualified! Congratulations! I present you with a piece of Heart!
You're not qualified. Too bad! Why don't you try again?
I don't have anything more to give you. I'm sorry!
You have to enter the maze from the proper entrance or I can't clock your time...
You, sir!Have you been going through life without one of my hold-anything bottles? Well step right up and make your life complete!I've got one on sale now for the low, low price of 100 Rupees! What do you say?Interested? (I'll take one / Don't need it)
Good buy!Thanks a lot! Now, hold it above your head for the whole world to see, OK? It's good for business!
So you're broke, eh?Too bad... Come back after you earn more Rupees.It might still be here.
I'm all sold out of bottles. Come back later, OK? ... ... ...
Wow!I've never seen such a rare bug!I'll buy it for 100 Rupees, OK?Done!
Hey!They say eating fish makes you smart.You have to give me this fish for this stuff, OK?Done!
Yo!Link! You seem to be in a heap of trouble, but this is all I can give you.
Hey you! Welcome! Ask us to do anything! (Temper my sword / I just dropped by)
I'll give you a big discount! (Sword Tempered... 10 Rupees / Wait a minute)
Tempered, eh?Are you sure? (Yes / I changed my mind)
Well, we can't make it any stronger than that... Sorry!
Drop by again anytime you want to.Hi ho!Hi ho! We're off to work!
All right, no problem. We'll have to keep your sword for a while.
Your sword is tempered-up! Now hold it!
If my lost partner returns, we can temper your sword, but now, I can't do anything for you.
Oh!Happy days are here again! You found my partner! ...We are very happy now... Drop by here again! At that time, we will temper your sword perfectly!
Ribbit ribbit...Your body did not change!You are not just an ordinary guy, are you? I used to live in Kakariko Town. I wonder what my partner is doing there without me... Ribbit!I have a request of you. Please take me to my partner! Please!Ribbit!Please!
I'm sorry, we're not done yet. Come back after a while.
Thank you! Thank you!
Hey hey, amateurs shouldn't try to do this.You're just getting in the way!
After wandering into this world I turned into this shape. ......... I enjoyed playing the flute in the original world... ......... There was a small grove where many animals gathered.I want to see that place again... I buried my flute there with some flower seeds. Will you try to find it for me? (Yes / No way)
Then I will lend you my shovel. Good luck!
......... I see.I won't ask you again... Good bye.
Did you find my flute? ......... Please keep looking for it...
Thank you, Link.But it looks like I can't play my flute any more.Please take it. If by chance you go to the village I lived in, please give it to a tired old man you will find there. ......... Well,my mind is getting hazy... Please let me hear the sound of the flute one last time...
Hocus pocus! You will find the elder Sahasrahla...
Abracadabra alakazam! You will open a desert lock with the Book of Mudora.
Hocus pocus! You will find a member of the wise men's line in the desert.
Abracadabra alakazam! You will find a mushroom lover at the Magic Shop...
Hocus pocus! You will meet Zora living in a lake at the river's source...
Abracadabra alakazam! The true Hero will find the Moon Pearl in the mountain tower.
Hocus pocus! Even the mighty Master Sword cannot harm the wizard's body.
Abracadabra alakazam! The true Hero will jump into the well near the smithy's shop.
Well, I have to say my condition isn't very good today.But I want you to come back again...
Hmmm...You look like you might have an interesting destiny... May I tell your fortune? I'll make it cheap... (Ask him to tell it / Not interested)
Now I will take X Rupees. I hope you will be healthy. Yeehah ha hah!
It is indeed a poor man who is not interested in his future... I'll be waiting for your return.
Hocus pocus! You will meet a strange man standing in the desert...
Abracadabra alakazam! The gossip shop in the Dark World has treasure for the asking...
Hocus pocus! You will find the smith's partner in the Village Of Outcasts.
Abracadabra alakazam! You will find a treasure resting in peace in the graveyard.
Hocus pocus! You will buy a new kind of bomb in the Bomb Shop.
Abracadabra alakazam! You will find something inside the pyramid of the Dark World.
Hocus pocus! You will run into a barrier if you try to enter Ganon's tower.
Abracadabra alakazam! You will need Silver Arrows to give Ganon his last moment.
Hey!I'll tell you a profitable story if you pay me 20 Rupees. How about it? (Pay Rupees / Don't want to hear it)
Hah!Thank you.They say there is a tiny circle of rocks in the lake at the source of the river.I don't know what will happen, but it might be fun to throw something into it... Heh heh.See you...
Heh heh.I see.I'm not interested in talking to people who don't have Rupees...
Heh heh.Thank you.To tell you the truth, I used to be a thief in the Light World... some of my fellow thieves went into hiding because they were afraid of being caught. One of them was a master locksmith, but now he is hiding the fact that he was a thief... ...by pretending to be a strange middle-aged guy! Ha ha ha...
Hah!Thank you.To tell you the truth, I found incredible beauty inside the pyramid, but someone sealed the door. You can't do anything with a standard bomb, they say...
Heh heh.Thank you.As a matter of fact, monster magic is making it rain in the swamp. If you can move the air with more force than the monsters, the rain may stop.
Sniffle... Hey brother Link! Do you have a bottle to keep a bug in? ... I see.You don't have one... Cough cough...
I can't go out 'cause I'm sick... Cough cough... People say I caught this cold from the evil air that is coming down off the mountain... Sniff sniff... This is my bug-catching net. I'll use it when I'm better, but for now, I'll lend it to you.
Sniffle... I hope I get well soon... Cough cough...
.................. .........
Why did you take my sign?It says plain as day to just leave me alone!Sheeesh!
I heard that you know I used to be a thief, right? Well, I'll open a chest for you. Will you keep it secret from everyone else? Would you please promise ? (Promise not to tell / Tell it to everyone)
OK, if that's the way you want it, I hope you drag that chest around forever!
Remember, you promised... Don't tell anyone.
All right, bring that chest over here...Seriously, keep this a secret from everyone.
Hold up the Master Sword and you will get the magic of Ether.
Hold up the Master Sword and you will get the magic of Bombos.
Hey!Blast you for waking me from my deep, dark sleep! ...I mean, thanks a lot, sir! But now I will get my revenge on you.Get ready for it! ...Err, is that OK with you, sir?
Heh heh heh!I laugh at your misfortune!Now your magic power will drop by one half! Congratulations! Now, do your best, even though I'm sure it won't be enough! Have a nice day!See you!
Long ago, in the beautiful kingdom of Hyrule surrounded by mountains and forests...
legends told of an omnipotent and omniscient Golden Power that resided in a hidden land. Many people aggressively sought to enter the hidden Golden Land...
But no one ever returned. One day evil power began to flow from the Golden Land...
So the King commanded seven wise men to seal the gate to the Land of the Golden Power. 
That seal should have remained for all time... 
......But, when these events were obscured by the mists of time and became legend...
A mysterious wizard known as Agahnim came to Hyrule to release the seal.He eliminated the good King of Hyrule...
Through evil magic, he began to make descendants of the seven wise men vanish, one after another. 
And the time of destiny for Princess Zelda is drawing near.
Because the key is locked inside this chest, you can never open it. Just take it with you.
100 Rupees for 30 Bombs!30 Bombs for just 100 Rupees! Please buy 'em, mister!
100 Rupees for 30 Bombs!I also have a new Super Bomb in stock for only 100 Rupees!Please buy it too, mister!
Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
Thank you very much.You can drop this Bomb off anywhere. (Press the A Button.) Please don't forget it.
Ki ki ki!If you give me 100 Rupees,I will open the entrance for you.Ki ki ki! What will you do? (Ask him to open it / Try to open it yourself)
Ki ki ki!Hmph! Do it yourself, then! Kik ki ki!
Ki ki!Good choice!Then I get 100 of your Rupees.Kik ki ki!
I'm Kiki the monkey ki ki! I love Rupees more than anything.Can you spare me 10 Rupees? What will you do? (Give him 10 Rupees / Never give him anything)
Ki ki ki ki!Good choice!I will accompany you for a while. Kik kiki!
Ki ki!Harumph!I have no reason to talk to you, then. Bye bye!Kik ki ki!
Ki ki?What are you doing? I don't want to go there!
Ohh, thank you very much! You saved my life.Please take me outside.
Gyaaah! Too bright!
Err...Wait a minute... Please don't go this way.
I am Aginah.I sense something is happening in the Golden Land the seven wise men sealed... This must be an omen of the Great Cataclysm foretold by the people of Hylian blood... ... ... ... The prophecy says, "The Hero will stand in the desert holding the Book Of Mudora." If you have the Book Of Mudora you can read the language of the Hylia People. It should be in the house of books in the village... You must get it! If you are the person who will be The Hero...
You have collected the three Pendants. If you are indeed the Hero who has Wisdom, Courage and Power, the Master Sword sleeping in the forest will be yours.
Aha!It is the Book Of Mudora. With it, you can read the language of the Hylia people.
You are the true Hero... I believe that you will return peace to this land again.
Your trial in the desert has made you stronger.The blood of the Hero must be in your veins...
Was it you who disturbed my peaceful nap?I will give this to you if you go away!
I don't have any more good presents for you.Take this instead, pest!
Yo Link!A mysterious fog has recently fallen over the forest.We have to be careful!
Maybe it's nothing, but this tree feels kind of strange as we cut it...
Yo!The fog in the forest is clearing.Thank you!We can go there again!Hey brother!
Yeah Link, now I'm quarreling with my younger brother.I sealed the door to his room.
So the doorway is open again... OK OK, maybe I should make up with my brother...
Hey Link, did you come from my older brother's room?Is he still angry?
Link, because of you,I can escape from the clutches of the evil monsters.Thank you! ...This world used to be the Golden Land where the Triforce was hidden. But because Ganon, the boss of thieves, wished it the world was transformed... I'm sure he's intending to conquer even our Light World after building his power here. He is trying to open a larger gate between worlds near the castle using our powers. But the gate is not open completely yet... If we seven maidens come together, we can break the barrier around Ganon's hiding place. I will tell you where the other girls are held.I believe you will destroy Ganon. I will return to my original form at that time. ... ... ... ... ... 
Link, because of you, I can escape from the clutches of the evil monsters.Thank you! ...The Triforce will grant the wishes of whoever touches it, as long as that person lives... That is why it was hidden in the Golden Land.Only a select few knew of its location, but at some point that knowledge was lost... The person who rediscovered the Golden Land was Ganondorf the evil thief. Luckily, he couldn't figure out how to return to the Light World... ...Well, remember that you have magical powers, which only The Hero can make the most of! There are some other magical warping points like the one you saw on Death Mountain. By using them you can go between the two worlds and find the evils hidden in the Dark World.You are the only one who can destroy Ganondorf, the thief-no, Ganon, the evil King Of Darkness!
Link, because of you, I can escape from the clutches of the evil monsters.Thank you! ...Do you know the prophecy of the Great Cataclysm? This is the way I heard it... If a person who has an evil heart gets the Triforce, a Hero is destined to appear... ...and he alone must face the person who began the Great Cataclysm. If the evil one destroys the Hero, nothing can save the world from his wicked reign. Only a person of the Knights Of Hyrule, who protected the royalty of Hylia, can become the Hero...You are of their blood-line, aren't you?Then you must rescue Zelda without fail.
Link, because of you, I can escape from the clutches of the evil monsters.Thank you! As the wise men sealed the way to the Dark World, the Knights Of Hyrule defended them from the attacks of evil monsters. I heard that the Knights Of Hyrule were nearly wiped out in that battle... You are perhaps the last one to carry on the blood-line of the Knights... It is ironic that the last one in the line has the potential to become the Hero of legend. Surely you can destroy Ganon!
Link, because of you, I can escape from the clutches of the evil monsters.Thank you! They say the Hylia people controlled mysterious powers, as did the seven wise men. But the blood of the Hylia has become thin over time.We who carry the blood of the seven wise men do not possess strong power any more, either. Our powers will increase if we mix the courage of the Knights with the wisdom of the wise men.Only a short time remains until the gate at the castle linking the worlds opens completely.If you defeat Ganon, this world will vanish and the Triforce will wait for a new holder. I believe in you... Good luck!
Link, because of you, I can escape from the clutches of the evil monsters.Thank you! Ganon captured us because he couldn't break the seal of the wise men with his power alone. And then, using the wizard Agahnim as his pawn, he drew us to the Dark World. After cracking the seal with our powers, he sealed us inside of these crystals. He then gave us to his loyal monsters.But Ganon didn't plan on your getting this far. Now, Princess Zelda is waiting for you inside of Turtle Rock. Please hurry!
I appreciate your coming so far to rescue me.As I thought, you are the legendary Hero. I have felt this from the first time we met. ......... Ganon is waiting inside of his tower to pass through the gate linking the two worlds. Once Ganon enters the Light World, it is unlikely that anyone can stop him. But if he stays in the closed space of this world, you can find him wherever he runs. Now, go to the Tower Of Ganon!We will use our combined powers to break the barrier.Let's return peace to the country without fail... ......... 
May the way of the Hero lead to the Triforce.
Do you understand? (Yes / Not at all)
Link, we are going to break the barrier of Ganon's Tower with our power.
I appreciate your coming so far to rescue me.As I thought, you are the legendary Hero. I have felt this from the first time we met. ......... Ganon is waiting inside of his tower to pass through the gate linking the two worlds. Once Ganon enters the Light World, it is unlikely that anyone can stop him. But if he stays in the closed space of this world, you can find him wherever he runs. Some maidens still need your help, though.Once you rescue them all, go to Ganon's Tower. We who are of the blood-line of the wise men will then use our power to break Ganon's barrier! Link...You must return peace to this country...
Ahah... Link! I have been waiting for you! Heh heh heh... I was hoping I could make Zelda vanish in front of your eyes. Behold!The last moment of Princess Zelda!
Ho ho ho...With this, the seal of the seven wise men is at last broken. It is now only a matter of time before evil power covers this land... After all, the legendary Hero cannot defeat us, the tribe of evil, when we are armed with the Power of Gold. Ho ho ho... Now, I must go!
Oh, so?...You mean to say you would like to be totally destroyed?Well, I can make your wish come true!
Grrrrugh!Well met!Like the true Hero that you are... But I am not ready to admit defeat yet.I will draw you into the Dark World!
Ho ho ho!It's great that you could come all the way here, Link. I'm very happy to see you again, but you'd better believe that we will not have a third meeting! Prepare to meet your doom!
Wah ha ha!What do you want, little man?Do you have something to ask me? (I want the flippers / I just dropped by)
Wah ha ha!But I don't just give flippers away for free. I sell them for 500 Rupees a pair. What do you do? (Pay 500 Rupees / Quit after all)
Wah ha ha!One pair of flippers coming up.I will give you a free bonus with your purchase. I will let you use the magic water ways of the sea folk which link lakes and rivers. When you see a whirlpool, dive into it.You never know where you'll surface!Wah ha ha!
Wade back this way when you have more Rupees... Wah ha ha!I'll see you again!
Great!Whenever you want to see my fishy face, you are welcome here. ... Wah ha ha!Good bye...!
Hi Link! Elder?Are you talking about the grandpa?OK,but don't tell any of the bad people about this. He's hiding in the palace past the castle. I will mark the spot on your map.Here you are... 
Did you meet the grandpa?If all the bad people go away, he can come back to the village.
You're new here, aren't you? Did you come here looking for the Power Of Gold? Well, you're too late.It will obey only the first person who touches it. The man who last claimed the Power Of Gold wished for this world.It reflects his heart. Yes, I came here because of greed for the Golden Power, and look what happened to me... To restore the Golden Land, a person worthy of the Golden Power must defeat the man who created this place... Until that time, I am stuck in this bizarre shape. But what a mischievous thing to leave lying around... The Power Of Gold... Triforce...
-Mysterious Pond- Won't you throw something in? What will you do? (Throw an item / Don't try it)
Don't do it!
Don't do it!
I will give this back to you then.Don't drop it again.
How many Rupees will you toss? (25 Rupees / 50 Rupees)
You are an honest person. I like you. I will give you something important... These are the Silver Arrows. To give Ganon his last moment, you definitely need them!I know I don't quite have the figure of a faerie. Ganon's cruel power is to blame! You must defeat Ganon!
Great Luck.
Good Luck.
A Little Luck.
Big Trouble.
For your reference, today you will have
You found a piece of Heart!
You found a piece of Heart!
You found a piece of Heart!
You found a piece of Heart! Your Heart level increased!
You found a Heart Container! Your Heart level increased!
I will sooth your wounds and comfort your weariness... Close your eyes and relax...
Oh?Who are you, Mr. Bunny? This world is like the real world, but evil has twisted it. The Golden Power is what changed your shape to reflect what is in your heart and mind. I am always changing my mind, so I turned into a ball... But if you have a ball called the Moon Pearl, you can keep your original shape here.
You didn't change your shape? You aren't just a normal guy, are you?
What do you want?! Do you have something to say to me, silly rabbit?! I came here to get the Power Of Gold but now I'm a freak and I can't go back to the real world!If I only had the Moon Pearl from the Tower Of Hera, I could go back to my original shape!I've got good reason to be stressed out! So back off!Shoo shoo!
WOW!Your shape didn't change! You got the Moon Pearl, huh?
In such a dangerous world you may need many things.Select something that you like...
Hi, may I help you?You can open two chests for 30 Rupees. Why don't you play? What will you do? (Play here / Maybe next time)
Well, come back and play some time.I'll be waiting for you. Until then, good bye!
Hey kid! You can open a chest after paying Rupees!
You can't open any more chests.The game is over.
All right, kid. Choose well!Good luck!
May I help you?Select the thing you like (Press the A Button).Prices as marked!
You don't need that item... Why not select something else? 
Thank you very much. Whenever you lose your shield, come back here again.
Thank you very much. This is the Medicine of Life. It helps you recover your Life.
Thank you very much. These are Arrows.You can't use them without a Bow.
These are Bombs. Did you know you can pick up a Bomb you already placed ? (Press the A Button).
Thank you very much. That is a Bee.Don't ask me what it is used for, either.
Thank you very much. You can recover one Heart.
No no no...I can't sell the merchandise because you don't have an empty bottle.
You can't carry any more now, but you may need some later!
I never imagined a boy like you could give me so much trouble. It's unbelievable that you defeated my alterego, Agahnim the Dark Wizard, twice! But I will never give you the Triforce.I will destroy you and make my wish to conquer both Light and Dark Worlds come true without delay.
You are doing well, lad.But can you break through this secret technique of Darkness? En Garde!
Hey kid, this is a secret hide- out for a gang of thieves! Don't enter without permission! By the way, I heard that one of our ex-members is staying at the entrance to the Desert.
Yo Link!This house used to be a hideout for a gang of thieves. What was their leader's name... Oh yeah, his name was Blind and he hated bright light a lot.
Welcome, Link... I am the Essence Of The Triforce. ... ... ... The Triforce will grant the wishes in the heart and mind of the person who touches it. If a person with a good heart touches it, it will make his good wishes come true...If an evil- hearted person touches it, it grants his evil wishes. The stronger the wish, the more powerful the Triforce's expression of that wish. Ganon's wish was to conquer the world.That wish changed the Golden Land to the Dark World. Ganon was building up his power here so he could conquer the Light World and make his wish come completely true. But now, you have totally destroyed Ganon.His Dark World will vanish. The Triforce is waiting for a new owner.Its Golden Power is in your hands... Now, touch it with a wish in your heart. ............
All right! Take it, thief!
Whoa...I saw her. A very nice young lady at the Waterfall Of Wishing in the hills where the river begins... Link, you should meet her at least once.I'm sure you will like her.
Take some Rupees, but don't tell anyone I gave them to you. Keep it between us, OK?
Check out the cave east of Lake Hylia.Strange and wonderful things live in it...
You can earn a lot of Rupees by defeating enemies.It's the secret of my success...
Link, did you know that if you destroy frozen enemies with the Hammer, you will often get a Magic Decanter?
Tra la la, look for Sahasrahla. .........
Oh yah, you found Sahasrahla! ......... Good job la la!
I'm sorry, but you don't seem to have enough Rupees...
Cluck cluck...What?! You turned me into a human. I can even speak! Aha, it must be you who is always teasing my friends. The Weathercock is always watching you harass them. Well, this human shape is uncomfortable for me. Ahhh, I want to be a chicken again!Cluck cluck...
Pay me 20 Rupees and I'll let you open one chest.You can keep what is inside. What will you do? (Open A Chest / Escape)
All right!Open the chest you like!
Oh, I see...Too bad. Drop by again after collecting Rupees.
For 100 Rupees, I'll let you open one chest and keep the treasure that is inside. What will you do? (Open A Chest / Escape)
Hi, Link.Sorry about my yard.It's a little over grown.Thanks for visiting. I'm glad to have company to talk to.I will tell you an interesting story. There is a lake swimming with Zoras at the source of the river, but it is hard to find. The treasure of Zora can turn people into fish.Heh heh heh. I'd love to see that.
I haven't had a chance to trim my hedges recently.Thanks for visiting anyway... A while ago, there was a boy in this village who could talk to animals with his Flute. He had a pet bird that flew with him everywhere, but he went to the mountain and never returned.
Start From Link's House
Start From Sanctuary
Start From Link's House
Start From Sanctuary
Start From The Mountain Cave
Continue Game
Save and Quit 
Welcome to the treasure field. The object is to dig as many holes as you can in 30 seconds. Any treasures you dig up will be yours to keep. It's only 80 Rupees to play. What do you say? (I want to dig / I don't want to dig)
Then I will lend you a shovel. When you have it in your hand, start digging! (Press the Y Button to dig.)
I see.Then I give up.Save some Rupees and come back.
OK!Time's up, game over. Come back again.Good bye...
Come back again! I will be waiting for you.
I can't tell you details, but it's not a convenient time for me now.Come back here again. Sorry.