(Arrival at the shore at Three Horns Divide) Claptrap: We're near Sanctuary, buddy. you go on ahead -- tell the locals what we'll require for my 'welcome back' party. I'll stay here and give 'em time to get what we need. Number one: ladies. Obvious. Number two: dudes. But hideous ones, we're talkin' morbidly obese, we're talkin' body odor, we're talkin' acne scars. The ladies'll take one look at these uggos and BAM! I start lookin' pretty good! Suddenly, it's not "ew, you get away from me you pervy little robot, you're creeping me out, why are you crying. I didn't even know robots could cry, look, if I give you a hug will you stop crying, alright, but keep that disc tray inside, OH (my) GOD WHAT IS THIS, MOTOR OIL?" It'll be more like, 'Claptrap, rescue me from these uggos and hump my leg.' which I WILL. Number three: we'll need booze, in case that other stuff doesn't work. Number four: streamers. Number fi-- are you writing all this down? Minion? Are you even-- you even here? Still? Lonely.

(After demolishing the bridge to Sanctuary with a rocket) Corporal Reiss: Sanctuary's off limits. You Bloodshots can stay in your hole.

(Undeterred, the Bloodshots jump over the gap in a technical) Ripper Bandit: I SEEEEE YOUUUUU!

Corporal Reiss: (Sigh) Awesome.

Ripper Bandit: Oh! Good idea! I think we'll just turn around and head on back to our -- DIIIIIIE! (gunshots)

Corporal Reiss: Why don't you boys run on back to your camp?

Angel: Pandora is a violent and dangerous place. Sanctuary is...slightly less so. You'll need a car to reach the city gate. Get to the Catch-A-Ride.

(approaching the Catch-A-Ride)

Angel: This machine will digitally construct a vehicle for you. Give it a try.

(attempting to spawn a vehicle)

Scooter (pre-recorded voice): Whoa, unauthorized user up in my grill! You trying to hack my Catch-A-Riiiide?! Uncool bro, uncooool.

Angel: Damnit! Oh, sorry... darn it. A man named Scooter controls these Catch-A-Ride machines -- he may be short a few chromosomes, but he's a savant when it comes to vehicles. He's locked this station to prevent the bandits from using it, but I'm reading an inactive Hyperion bot in the Bloodshot camp. If you can attach its interface adapter to the Catch-A-Ride, I can hack the machine and get you a car.

(after collecting adapter)

Angel: Just attach the adapter onto the Catch-A-Ride and I'll get you a free car.

(after adapter is attached)

Angel: Executing phase shift.

Catch-A-Ride machine: Rescinding lockdown.

Angel: Wait a moment while I hack the Catch-A-Ride.

Scooter (pre-recorded voice): Authorized user accepted. Enjoy the ride and there's a pimento taco -- a "Pimentaco" -- in the glove box.

Angel: Cool. Try requesting another car.

Scooter (pre-recorded voice): Thanks for using Scooter's Catch-A-Ride, beeyotch!

Angel: Real charmer, that one. You should now be able to digistruct a car from any Catch-A-Ride station. Now use one to jump that gap.

(after jumping the gap)

Angel: Great! Now head to Sanctuary and find Roland. He'll want to meet the Vault Hunter who stared down Handsome Jack and lived.

Handsome Jack: Sometimes I envy you bandits. You're so... unburdened with things like intelligence, culture, morality, honor, ambition, good looks... I could go on but I won't. But I could.

Handsome Jack: [pauses] Ah, dignity! Almost forgot to mention dignity. [a horse whinnies in the background] Easy Butt Stallion! Easy!

(approaching the entrance to Sanctuary)

Bandit: Let us in, grinder! We're only gonna kill every last one of ya!

(after using the intercom)

Lt. Davis: You're never getting into Sanctuary, you Bloodshot skaglicks -- oh, hold up. You're a Vault Hunter. Just a sec, Roland wanted to talk to you! Lemme ECHO him!

Roland: Ah, so you're the one I've been hearin' all this radio chatter about. Name's Roland. I used to be a Vault Hunter like you, until I formed the Crimson Raiders. We'll catch up when I get back to Sanctuary --for now, I need your help. My men tell me Corporal Reiss hasn't returned the power core we need to keep the city's shields running. Bring Reiss back to Sanctuary, and you'll have earned your place in the Raiders.

Angel: Roland's contacted you? Good. Listen to what he says. He can help us defeat Jack.

(after several seconds)

Handsome Jack: Handsome Jack here, reminding you all not to worry your pretty little heads about those earthquakes. See, with every tremor, my drills get closer to the Vault -- to freedom, order, and safety for us all! Except you asshats in Sanctuary.

(Picking up Reiss' ECHO recorder)

Corporal Reiss (recording): Got the power core from the Bloodshots! Blew the bridge! I'm hit... Gotta lose 'em in the Marrowfields -- RAGHHHH!

Roland: Reiss is in trouble? Dammit, we're spread thin enough as it is. Find him, soldier.

Corporal Reiss: [broadcasting] Goddamned Bloodshots, there's too many of 'em! If anyone can hear me, I need HELP!

(approaching Reiss)

Psycho: You're SKAGBAIT, grinder!

(after rescuing Reiss)

Corporal Reiss: A Vault Hunter? Heh, didn't think I rated that much of a rescue! One of those psychos ran off with the power core. Without it, Sanctuary'll be defenseless. [cough] Get that core back to Sanctuary. I'm just gonna take a nap -- wake me up when I'm not on Pandora anymore.

Roland: Reiss is dead? He was one of the first Crimson Lancemen I recruited to the Raiders. Get that power core back. And while you're at it, kill some bandits for Reiss. It's what he would've wanted.

(collecting power core)

Roland: That's the power core. Great-- Jack won't destroy Sanctuary today, at least. Get back to the city. We'll meet up once I get there. Welcome to the Crimson Raid-- ah, dammit. I'm being attacked, I'll see --

(if the optional objective: Kill 20 Bloodshots is completed)

Lt. Davis: The resistance lost a good man today. But I'm sure Reiss woulda been happy to know how quickly you wiped out those Bloodshots.

(on the way to Sanctuary)

Handsome Jack: This is a message to Sanctuary (mock voice) 'the last stronghold of the resistance'. (end mock voice) Pandora as you knew it -- the chaos, the bandits -- that time has passed. If you let it, this could be an era of order, of peace! Just turn yourselves in, and I promise: your deaths will be quick.

Handsome Jack: Hey, y'like my speech? I was lying about the last part, by the way. I'm gonna spend a loooong time torturing you bandit scum to death. And I'll enjoy it even more because -- ah, I shouldn't say anymore. I've got a little secret that I, uh - you know what? You don't need to hear it. It'll probably just confuse ya. Ciao!

(using the intercom)

Lt. Davis: Roland, is that you?! Oh, it's the Vault Hunter -- get in quick! Roland's ECHO communicator went dead, we need your help!

(entering Sanctuary)

Handsome Jack: (laughs mockingly) Made it to Banditville, huh? Well done! It'll be nice to see a friendly face when I'm burning that place to the ground. Oh, and I have decided that I will tell you my secret later on. Once you've earned it.

(talking to Lt. Davis)

Lt. Davis: You're the one Commander Roland was talkin' about. The one who faced Jack and LIVED! Look, we need your help, bad, but first thing's first -- plug that power core into the shield generator.

Roland: Oh, good. You're not dead.

Lilith: That's his way of saying, Wow, you're a badass. I'm glad you're okay.

Roland: Right. Sorry. We'd all be dead if it weren't for you. But we need a plan. Jack's getting closer and closer to digging up the Warrior, and we still don't know where he's got the Vault Key stashed.

Angel: I can help you with that.

Roland: You?! Dammit, we told you never to contact us again!

Angel: Will you please just hear me out--

Lilith: Sure, let's listen to the crazy computer that just tried to kill us. Hey, remember that time she told us the Vault was full of loot?

Angel: It's with me! I'm charging the Vault Key!

Roland: ... Continue.

Angel: The Key naturally charges itself once every two hundred years. Jack is patient, but he's not that patient -- he's been using my power to forcibly charge the Key with Eridium. If you find me, you find the Vault Key.

Angel: The Vault Key is housed in my AI Control Core atop Thousand Cuts. It's protected by three impassable security hurdles.

Angel: The first is a competitor deterrence field that will obliterate any non-Hyperion entity passing through it.

Lilith: Competitor deterrence field? What, like, a death wall?

Angel: It is a field of pure thermosonic energy programmed to atomize any unauthorized personnel.

Roland: So, yeah. A death wall.

Angel: Beyond that lies the second hurdle: a defense bunker outfitted with the most high-tech weaponry Hyperion can afford.

Roland: That doesn't sound good.

Angel: Past the bunker, you'll have to get through the final hurdle: a door that will only open for Handsome Jack.

Lilith: Well that sounds even worse.

Angel: This will be your only opportunity to steal the Vault Key and stop Jack from controlling the Warrior. I'm out of time -- do what you will, but promise me this: no matter what happens, do NOT allow Lilith into my chambers.

Lilith: What the hell's that supposed to mean?

Roland: If she was luring us into a trap, she would have made it sound a little bit possible.

Lilith: If we're taking that bitch down, I'm coming -- trap or not.

Roland: If anyone's going to shut her down, it has to be you, soldier. Head to the Hyperion Preserve -- I think I know how to get past the first hurdle.

(Mission objectives update: Go to Wildlife Exploitation Preserve)

(Vault Hunter fast-travels to The Highlands from where he enters the Wildlife Exploitation Preserve.)

Roland: I bet your friend Claptrap could get through that Hyperion forcefield. He's out of date, though -- he'll need a software upgrade. Mordecai should have what you need. He's camped out near the Preserve -- think he needs your help with something.

(Mission objectives update: Find Mordecai, Get Claptrap upgrade)

(Vault Hunter makes his way to Casa de Mordecai.)

Mordecai: Hey, over here.

Mordecai: Hey, I heard about Sanctuary, you alright? Sorry I missed the action. I saw some Hyperion movement out in Tundra Express, so Bloodwing and I checked it out. Didn't realize we were walking into a trap. Bloodwing gave me time to get away, but... the bastards grabbed her. Brought her here.

Mordecai: Roland ECHO'd ahead. All my data's on a chip in my bird Bloodwing's collar, including your Claptrap upgrade. But some Hyperion jackasses nabbed her and took her into the Preserve over there. I'm glad you're here -- I've been scoutin' the place for the last half-hour, and it looks like at least a two-man job. If you can get inside through the shipyard, I can give you support and lead you to Bloodwing. You get my bird, you get your Claptrap upgrade.

(Mission objectives update: Infiltrate shipping yard, Rescue Bloodwing)

(Vault Hunter starts making his way to the dockyard down below.)

Mordecai: I'll provide support, just like in Tundra Express.

Mordecai: Jack makes me laugh. He kidnapped Bloodwing so I'd start pissin' my pants and makin' threats that if anything happens to my bird, I'll blah-blah-blah, but... Blood and I have been through a lot. I know my girl can handle herself.

(Vault Hunter approaches and tries to open the dockyard gate ...)

Robotic Voice: Unauthorized access detected. Releasing loaders.

Mordecai: Ah, crap. They're chuckin' loaders at ya? Damn -- aghhh, gimme a second to think of something.

Mordecai: Okay, I got an idea. If you cripple some of those loaders, but don't kill 'em, they'll have to open the door to send reinforcements.

(If the Vault Hunter destroys a loader ...)

Mordecai: Don't go for the kill! Just cripple 'em!

Mordecai: Just wound 'em, don't kill 'em! The reinforcements won't show up otherwise.

Mordecai: Hey! Try not to kill 'em. You'll need a pile of wounded bots to call out the surveyors.

Mordecai: Don't kill 'em -- you need 'em to ask for repairs!

Mordecai: Just cripple 'em, don't kill 'em! Otherwise you'll NEVER get in!

Mordecai: If you kill 'em, they can't call for repairs and the door won't open! Just wound 'em!

(When the Vault Hunter cripples one of the loaders, one or more of the messages below can be heard.)

Mordecai: You wounded that one, now move onto another loader!

Mordecai: Great job! Now leave that one alone and gimp a few more.

Mordecai: Good! Now forget about that loader and cripple some others.

Mordecai: Good going! You gotta cripple some others now.

Mordecai: Keep it up! You need to damage a few more loaders.

(Vault Hunter cripples more loaders.)

Robotic Voice: Loaders damaged. Deploying reinforcements.

Mordecai: Heh, groovy -- the door's open now. Get inside and find Bloodwing.

(Alternate situation where the Vault Hunter kills all loaders w/o crippling them ...)

Mordecai: Woah woah woah, hold up -- the door just... opened. That's weird... why would Jack let us into the Preserve? Head on in, I guess... but cuidado, amigo.

(Vault Hunter kills reinforcements and enters the dockyard.)

Mordecai: Bloodwing should be in the holding cells at the other end of the facility. You find her, you'll find your Claptrap upgrade.

(Mission objectives update: Find holding cells)

(As the Vault Hunter drops down into holding pits.)

Mordecai: Welcome to the Wildlife Exploitation Preserve. Jack says he built this place to promote science and discovery and whatever-the-hell, but it's BS. They're just using slag to experiment on every creature they can find. You gotta get Bloodwing outta there.

Handsome Jack: Oh, hey, you're in the Preserve. I was gonna do this whole thing where I'd lure you in here and kill you, but you just -- you just kinda showed up! Thanks for saving me the trouble, kiddo!

As the Vault Hunter fights his way across the grasslands ...)

Dr. Patricia Tannis: Slag mutation is a volatile, brutal science that flies in the face of human ethics. Needless to say, I am extremely interested in it. Get me some samples of the slag serum Hyperion is using on the wildlife.

(Bonus task Collect slag samples: 0/10 added.)

(Vault Hunter enters the Specimen Maintenance area.)

Mordecai: Bloodwing should be in one of these cells. Don't worry about the uglies in the other ones -- they can't get to you. Just get to Bloodwing and you'll have what you need to upgrade Claptrap and get through that death wall.

(Mission objectives update: Find Bloodwing)

(Vault Hunter opens the gate to and enters the Bloodwing's Enclosure.)

Mordecai: Did ya find her? She okay?

(Vault Hunter finds Bloodwing's feather on the ground.)

Handsome Jack: Looking for Bloodwing? Oh, I moved her a few hours ago. Somewhere a little more... dramatic.

Mordecai: Bloodwing ain't there? Dammit -- Jack's playin' games with us. Waitaminute, waitaminute... I'm seein' some commotion in the Observation Wing. Maybe they moved her there. Just keep pushin' through the Preserve, amigo.

As the Vault Hunter leaves the Bloodwing's Enclosure ...)

Handsome Jack: Hey -- you know what I just remembered? It's feeding time.

(Forcefields on holding pens go down releasing all the animals kept in there.)

(Vault Hunter keeps pushing through the Preserve ...)

Handsome Jack: I had my boys build the Preserve to research the full applications of slag. See, it's not just an elemental damage type -- if you know how to use it, slag has... lots of applications.

(Vault Hunter enters the Observation area ...)

Mordecai: If I know Bloodwing, they're gonna have the biggest badass they can find protectin' her. Shouldn't be a problem for you, but just a heads-up.

(If Vault Hunter collects all 10 slag samples ...)

Dr. Patricia Tannis: You've found the slag samples? Fantastic! Leave them with Roland once you finish whatever irrelevant thing you are doing right now.

(Vault Hunter takes the elevator down into the Observation Wing.)

Handsome Jack: Want Bloodwing back, huh? Shame -- I've been doing some really interesting Eridium experiments with her. Hate to see her go, but heck with it.

(Underground silo doors sliding away, slag vapor rising from within ...)

Handsome Jack: She's all yours.

(Title card: Slagged Bloodwing)

Mordecai: Oh my god...

Handsome Jack: Just give it up, kiddo. Bloodwing's got ALL the elements at her disposal! Fire! Electricity! Corrosion! Slag! And... ah, damn, I forgot the last one. What the hell was that, again?

Mordecai: Goddammit! Just... just weaken her and I'll hit her with a tranq!

Roland: I'm sorry, soldier, but you gotta beat Bloodwing down. Do what you can to save her, but if you can't... she's got what we need to get into Control Core Angel and grab the Vault Key. That's what matters here.

(Mission objectives update: Weaken Bloodwing)

(Bloodwing gets ready to attack ...)

Handsome Jack: Fire!

Handsome Jack: Right, fire... what else is there?

(Each time Bloodwing is about to attack the vault Hunter, one or more of the messages below is heard ...)

Mordecai: Watch her claws!

Mordecai: She's comin' for ya -- look out!

Mordecai: She's bringin' out her claws -- watch it!

Mordecai: Get outta the way -- she's gonna divebomb!

Mordecai: She's divebombing! MOVE!

Mordecai: She's diving, look out!

Mordecai: Back up, she's slamming the ground!

Mordecai: She's gonna dive -- get away!

Mordecai: Agh, she's got her sights on you! MOVE!

(As the Vault Hunter fights Bloodwing ...)

(Every now and then, Mordecai will inform the Vault Hunter about supplies ...)

Mordecai: Hey, I'm sendin' you supplies.

(Bloodwing attack the Vault Hunter with fire-bombs and breathing fires at him.)

Mordecai: Holy god, is she breathing FIRE?!

Mordecai: She's belchin' fire again! Jeezus!

Mordecai: This is gonna be fine... just gotta tranq Bloodwing, get her back to Sanctuary, and... I dunno, maybe Zed can patch her up!

Mordecai: Listen to me, girl! The Vault Hunter's your friend -- STOP FIGHTING 'EM!

Handsome Jack: Electricity!

Handsome Jack: Electricity... slag, fire, electricity, corrosion's coming up next -- what am I forgetting?

Mordecai: You're gonna regret ever dragging Bloodwing into this, Jack! You're gonna watch her tear your throat out!

Handsome Jack: Heh-heh. That's cute.

Mordecai: Watch the electricity!

Mordecai: Goddammit, Jack! You better pray Bloodwing makes it outta this!

Mordecai: Calm down, Blood! Take it easy!

Mordecai: She's charged with electricity, watch out!

Handsome Jack: Corrosion!

Handsome Jack: Corrosion... yeah, I remember that one... Come on, what is left?

(Vault Hunter keeps shooting at Bloodwing, her health goes very low ...)

Mordecai: I'm loadin' the tranq dart! Tranquila, Blood -- this won't hurt, I promise!

Mordecai: Okay. She's still alive. Get the microchip from her collar, and we can get her back to Sanctuary.

(As the Vault Hunter approaches downed Bloodwing and takes the Claptrap's upgrade from her collar...)

Handsome Jack: Oh, now I remember! EXPLOSIIIIIIVE!

(Bloodwing's collar explodes killing her instantly.)

Mordecai: NOOOOOOO!

Handsome Jack: THAT is why you don't screw with me. You and your little friend Mordecai turn yourselves in, or that dumbass bird is just the beginning.

Mordecai: GODDAMMIT, JACK! I'M GONNA KILL YOU! YOU HEAR ME?!

Roland: I'm sorry about Bloodwing, soldier, but we've gotta keep moving. Get that software upgrade to Claptrap, and we'll be able to get through the security field leading to Control Core Angel.

(Mission objectives update: Deliver upgrade to Claptrap)

(As the Vault Hunter leaves the Observation Wing ...)

Handsome Jack: Oh, where the hell is... argh, I had a violin somewhere, I was gonna play it all sarcastically... goddammit, it was gonna be awesome. BLAKE! WHERE'S THE BLOODY VIOLIN?!

(Vault Hunter makes his way to the Wildlife Exploitation Preserve exit.)

Handsome Jack: Whohohohoah -- you didn't think you were gonna get out of here ALIVE, did ya?

Robotic Voice: Intruder in range. Deploying reinforcements.

(Number of loader being moonshot into the area ...)

Mordecai: Vault Hunter... get down.

(Mordecai starts hitting loaders with explosive rounds, one-shot killing them ...)

Mordecai: DIE, ASSHOLES! SCREW YOU! SCREW YOU! VETE AL DIABLO, YOU SONS OF BITCHES!

(Vault Hunter fast-travels back to Sanctuary.)

Handsome Jack: Alright, sweet, sweet, found it. Alright. This is a song for Mordecai's stupid bird. In E.

(Horrible screeching violin playing is heard.)

Handsome Jack: Alright, y'know what, screw you, it woulda been HILARIOUS if I'd found it earlier. Shut up!

(Vault Hunter heads over to and inserts a card into Claptrap, uploading the upgrade.)

Claptrap: Buddy?! What the HELL are you do-do-do-do--

(Claptrap awkwardly and stiffly moves into a variety of poses before turning completely invisible.)

Claptrap: --oo-ho-HOO! Holy skagsack -- I'm INVISIBLE! This is -- you -- I can't... Minion: GIMME FIVE! Oh, right.

(Claptrap reappears.)

Claptrap: You've earned it!

Roland: Great. Claptrap can get us through the Angel's security field now. Come on back -- we may have a way past the bunker.

Claptrap: Come on, right here! Up top! Don't leave me hangin', bro. Don't make this awkward. Well, mission failed. It's awkward now, huh. I made it weird. Still, you know what'd make you feel better? A high-five from your buddy Claptrap! Just imagine it: the sharp smack of hand against hand, the feeling of accomplishment, of brotherhood -- okay, I'm making it weird again. Sorry. Okay, how about this: I'll count to three. If you haven't high-fived me by the time I get to three, I'll assume you don't want a high-five. Ready? One. Two. Three! Okay, the three count was a dumb idea. You clearly want to high-five me, you're just not sure how. I understand! Fear not, though -- you need only smack my hand, and bam! High-five complete. Okay. Ready? Go!

(Vault Hunter high-fives Claptrap.)

Claptrap: That's what I'm talking about!

(Vault Hunter heads over to Crimson Raiders HQ.)

Lilith: Bloodwing. Damn.

Roland: Yeah.

Lilith: Remember, ah... remember that time Mordecai got shot in the shoulder, and he just hid behind cover and threw Bloodwing out to face those bandits on his own?

Roland': Heh. Yeah.

Lilith: And Bloodwing just flew around in circles, not attacking anybody? And Mordecai was screamin' at him "what are you doin', you coward, get to killin', blah blah blah." and finally Mordecai stood up, out of cover--

Roland': And Bloodwing went screaming down into the fray and killed all thosee bandits in a half-second. He wanted Mordecai to see him do it. Wanted to make him proud.

Lilith: And Mordecai was happy as skag in slag, kissin' his beak, scratchin' his neck...

Roland': Yeah, which woulda been cute, if Bloodwing hadn't been covered in entrails.

Mordecai: Rrrghh... SHUT UP ALREADY!

(Vault Hunter turns in the mission to Roland.)

Roland': I'm sorry about Bloodwing, soldier. But there's still more to be done if we're gonna reach Angel and get the Vault Key.

Roland: To be honest, I've got no idea how to get past a door that'll only open for Jack.

Angel: Sorry to interrupt, but we've little time. Get to the city of Opportunity.

Angel: To breach the final door to my chambers, you'll need to be Jack -- that means passing a bio-scan and speaking a password in his voice. If you can kill one of Jack's body doubles in Opportunity, I can get you through that door.

Roland: Much as I hate tellin' you to listen to her, Angel's the best lead we got. You already know not to trust her, but... be careful.

(Mission objectives update: Go to Opportunity)

(Vault Hunter arrives to Opportunity.)

Angel: To breach the final door to my chambers, you'll need to be Jack -- that means passing a bio-scan and speaking a password in his voice. If you can kill one of Jack's body doubles in Opportunity, I can get you through that door.

(Mission objectives update: Kill Jack's double)

(Vault Hunter fights his way to the Opportunity Square where he finds and engages Jack's body double.)

Angel: That's one of the body doubles Jack uses to confuse assassins, and impress his underlings.

(Vault Hunter kills the body double.)

Angel: Grab the pocketwatch device he dropped. It echoes his bio-signature to every machine in the immediate area, so his doubles can do all of his hand-kissing and baby-shaking for him.

(Mission objectives update: Pick up double's pocketwatch)

(Vault Hunter grabs the pocketwatch.)

Angel: That pocketwatch also records audio -- Jack loved to listen to the praise of his underlings. We need to create a voice modulator so you can speak in Jack's voice. Get to an info kiosk.

(Mission objectives update: Use info kiosk)

(After clearing the area of all enemies, Vault Hunter activates the nearest info kiosk.)

Hyperion Info Kiosk: Did you know that some people on this planet still believe in silly superstitions like angels, demons, and ancient alien warriors? We like to call them bandits.

Angel: Yes! This is going to work -- if I get a few more samples of Jack's voice, I can make a voice modulator for you. You need to get more voice samples from the other info kiosks.

(Mission objectives update: Get more voice samples 0/4)

(Vault Hunter heads over to the Residential Quarter, eliminates all opposition, and activates the second info kiosk.)

Hyperion Info Kiosk: Did you know you're staring at the future site of the Opportunity pleasure palace? That's right -- for a thousand bucks, you'll be able to spend an hour with a life-sized likeness of me.

Angel: I almost have what I need -- just activate a few more kiosks.

(Vault Hunter heads over to the Waterfront District, eliminates all opposition, and activates the third info kiosk.)

Hyperion Info Kiosk: Hey, kids! Did you know your chances of being disemboweled increase by eighty thousand percent upon leaving Opportunity? It's a scientific fact.

(Vault Hunter heads over to the Hyperion Office Complex, eliminates all opposition, and activates the fourth info kiosk.)

Hyperion Info Kiosk: Hey, kids! Did you know what your mommies and daddies gave up so your family could live in Opportunity? Literally nothing! Your family is paid to be here -- I'm the one who feeds and protects everyone. Remember: we should all love our parents, but love me more.

(Vault Hunter heads over to, eliminates all opposition, and activates the fifth info kiosk.)

Hyperion Info Kiosk: Did you know littering in Opportunity is punishable by death? If not, you also oughtta know complaining about Opportunity's laws is considered verbal littering.

(Mission objectives update: Upload samples to Angel)

(Vault Hunter arrives to the location marked on his map.)

Angel: Attach the pocketwatch, quickly.

(If the Vault Hunter takes his time to do as told ...)

Angel: Or, you know, slowly.

(Vault Hunter attaches the pocketwatch to the console.)

Angel: I see the files.

Angel: All done. Now grab the voice modulator.

(Mission objectives update: Retrieve voice modulator)

(Vault Hunter picks up the voice modulator.)

Angel: Great! Now, unfortunately, you will speak in Jack's voice until you reach the security door. I will tell you the password to open it at the appropriate time.

(Mission objectives update: TURN IN!)

Zero (If present): As my voice changes/I cannot help but feel wrong/I sound like a jerk

Maya (If present): This is interesting technology. I wonder how it -- oh, God, I sound atrocious.

Axton (If present): Testing? Testing one two? One two. And now I have the voice of a douchebag. Great.

Salvador: (If present): Uh... is this thing working? Woah. That's weird.

Angel: AAGH!

Handsome Jack: You seriously thought you could hide from me, Angel? Is that what you thought? Say goodbye to your friend, Angel. Say it.

Angel: See you soon.

Roland: You found a way past the final door to Angel's control core, huh? Well, she's kept up her part of the bargain, surprisingly. Time to return the favor. Come on back and we'll steal ourselves a Vault Key.

(Vault Hunter returns to Crimson Raiders HQ in Sanctuary ...)

Lilith: This isn't a discussion. You're not going without me. Period.

Roland: Look, I need you here protecting Sanctuary. If this turns out to be a trap, I need you to keep these people safe.

Lilith: Is this because Angel told me not to come?! It is, isn't it

Roland: Lilith -- dammit, would you just trust me? Okay?

Lilith: If you get killed, I'm going to be really pissed.

Roland: Noted.

Lilith: If you live, I'm tearing those clothes right off your body.

Mordecai: Eughh -- Lilith, we're standing right here! Nobody wants to hear that!

Roland: Also... also noted.

Brick: Go on...

(Vault Hunter turns in the mission to Roland.)

Roland: Time to think up some memorable last words.

Mordecai: Jack, Lilith, and the Warrior are in Hero's Pass. So that's where we're headed. This is the final fight, amigo - if you gotta prepare, do it now. Go check around the city - these people don't have much, but they still wanna help you.

Mordecai: Hyperion's locked the entrance to Hero's Pass. Get back to Claptrap; you'll need him to open the way for you. Brick and I will meet you once you're in. Win or lose, we're gonna finish this together. for Bloodwing. For Roland. For Pandora!

Getting items from various people
Tannis: Thought I generally have trouble verbalizing my thoughts into words that will not utterly confuse or nauseate you, I find my mental processes are now surprisingly focused. I have only two words for you - perhaps the most important two words ever spoken on Pandora: Kill. Jack. Here - this may help you in your efforts to put a hilariously large hole in Jack's face.

Dr. Zed: I ain't the best with words, but I just want ya to know I'm rootin' for ya out there. Jack kicked me outta my home back in Fyrestone - it's about time he got what's comin' to him. Here. Thought you could use this.

(Entering Scooter's garage)
Ellie: If that Vault Hunter comes by, you make sure to give 'em my love, alright?

Scooter: What? Ew. I ain't gon' do that.

Ellie: I mean wish 'em luck. Scooter.

Scooter: Oh. Okay. That makes more sense.

Ellie: Hey, and if we don't get through this - if Jack wakes his Warrior or whatever? Tell ma... tell ma I love her.

Scooter: Hell, girl, she already knows that. Catch-a-familial-reconcilatiooooon!

Ellie: Why you always gotta do that?

Scooter: Oh, hey, man - Ellie and I was just talkin' bout ya. Now you...you make sure to come back alive, okay? If you can, come back with Jack's head on a pike, y'hear?

Ellie: What Scooter said - I wanna hollow that sumbitch's gourd and eat nachos out of it.

Scooter: Oh, nearly forgot - Ellie and I got somethin' for ya. Hope it helps.

Hammerlock: Well, my old friend - I wish you the best. May you return from your quest with handsome blood on your hands, and a smile on your face!

Hammerlock: Oh, and lest I forget - here you are. Thought it could be of some use.

Moxxi: I've had just about enough of that handsome jackass, sugar. Get rid of him, and you'll never pay for another drink again.

Moxxi: Here - I got something for ya.

Marcus: Jack's monopoly on weapons is running me out of business. But that's not why I want him dead. I want him dead because he's a greedy, murdering sonofabitch who needs to die screaming. Good luck.

Marcus: Here - you might need this.

Approaching Claptrap
Claptrap: It's time to end this! I'll meet you out in the Eridium Blight.

Entering the Eridium Blight
Handsome Jack: Mmmm... You feel that? That electricity in the air when you're just aching to murder someone? Haven't felt that in such a long time.

Lilith: You do what you have to stop him from waking that Warrior. Even if it means takin' me out. Better dead than a damsel.

Mordecai: Brick and I will meet you out in Hero's Pass. Win or lose, we're gonna finish this together.

Brick: We might not make it, slab. But I want you to know - hehehehe - it's been a hell of a lot of fun.

Approaching the Hyperion gate guarding Hero's Pass
Claptrap: This is it, minion. Our vengeance is finally at hand!

Claptrap: LET'S TEAR THIS PLANET A NEW ***HOLE! YAAAAAAGHHHHH!

(Claptrap moves towards the gate with both arms flailing in the air.)

Claptrap: Hyperion's gonna regret ever setting foot on Pandora! Minion, I'm gonna get that door open so I can take care of that handsome bastard myself!

Claptrap: You hear me, Jack?! You killed my friends! You destroyed my product line! I am the last Claptrap in existence, AND I AM GOING TO TEABAG YOUR CORPSE!

(fighting at the gate begins)

Claptrap: AHHHHH! Minion, draw their fire with your face while I cloak my way over to the door controls!

Claptrap: Good job, minion! I've uncloaked over by the controls - lemme just get this door open!

Claptrap: You think a door can stop me, Jack?! I was MADE to open doors! HAHAHAHA!

Claptrap: Aaaaaand OPEN!

Hyperion AI: Access denied.

(More metallic doors appear across the entrance)

Claptrap: What?! I said 'AAAAND open,' not 'AAAAAND close a secondary set of doors!'

Hyperion AI: Dispatching additional troops.

Claptrap: NO! Don't dispatch MORE troops! I'm sorry! I'm sorry, pretty female voice!

Claptrap: I'm gonna find a way to shut down the alert! Just cover me, minion!

Claptrap: I'm hacking the security grid now - in just a little while I'll have these defenses down!

Claptrap: Keep covering me - I've almost got the defenses down!

Claptrap: YES! I've done it! Shutting the door defenses down...NOW!

Hyperion AI: Activating additional door defenses. Turrets deployed.

Claptrap: GOD DAMMIT!

Hyperion AI: Dispatching additional troops.

Claptrap: Crap on a cracker! More bots incoming!

Claptrap: We got WAR Loaders, friendo!

Claptrap: I've got an idea. I'm hacking those turrets so they'll fight for US!

Hyperion AI: Access denied.

Claptrap: Come on, baby, don't be like that! Gimme...those...TURRETS!

Hyperion AI: Access...granted.

Claptrap: HOLY ...! IT ACTUALLY WORKED! The turrets are fighting for us now! I ACTUALLY DID SOMETHING!

Claptrap: We got incoming!

Claptrap: I'm overridng the door locks! Just stay alive, minion!

Hyperion AI: Dispatching additional troops.

Claptrap: How many of these guys ARE there?!

Claptrap: Badasses incoming!

Claptrap: AVOID the bullets! AVOID THEM!

Claptrap: Watch out, minion!

Hyperion AI: Reinforcements... depleted.

Claptrap: Don't worry, baby - happens to a lot of girls!

Claptrap: AAAAAAAAAAND! OPEEEEEEEEENNNNNNNN!

Claptrap: We did it, minion! Jack thought he could stop us with a door? HA! I was MADE to open doors!

Claptrap: There's no stopping us now, minion! Together, we shall free Pandora! I will lead you into battle! I will destroy Handsome Jack with my bare hands! I will --

Claptrap: STAIRS?! NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO!

Claptrap: Minion, you've gotta go on without me! Do your master proud!

Claptrap: Dammit, Jack - how did you know stairs were my ONLY weakness?! Next to electrocution, and explosions, and gunfire, rust, corrosion, being kicked a lot, viruses, being called bad names, falling from great heights, drowning, adult onset diabetes, being looked at funny, heart attacks, exposure to oxygen, being turned down by women, and pet allergens! Your brilliance is matched only by your malevolence!

Claptrap: I'm just gonna go ahead and cloak now. You can't hear me crying if I cloak!

Claptrap: (sobbing)

Claptrap: (stairs, why did it have to be stairs)

Claptrap: (I'll never climb those stairs)

At Hero's Pass
Handsome Jack: Mmmm, do you feel that, child-killer? Hmm? The Key's nearly charged! This world is gonna end!

Further down the pass
Mordecai: I'm here, amigo!

Brick: Slab!

Brick: Lemme get this outta the way!

Brick: You get the HELL away from my friend!

Mordecai: Oh God, is he screaming again?

Brick: You can't stop us!

Brick: Dammit - we can't get through! Mordecai!

Mordecai: Hold up - I got this!

Brick: Mordecai's in position, and my fists are hungry. Let's GO!

Brick: This way!

Brick: We gotta push, slab!

Brick: Let's go!

Hyperion AI: Enemy in range. Engaging auto cannons.

Brick: Over here, slab!

Mordecai: (Taking fire from auto cannons) ARG!

Brick: We're coming, Lilith!

Brick: Shoot the door, Mordy!

Mordecai: I gotta circle around to make the shot - just stay alive!

Mordecai: Keep those baddies distracted while I move into position!

Mordecai: I'm on my way!

Hyperion AI: Dispatching Jet Loaders.

Mordecai: God dammit - we're taking fire! Just hold on!

Mordecai: Almost there, just hold out a little longer!

Mordecai: I'm here!

Mordecai: Boom, baby! The path is clear!

Brick: Hell yeah! Let's go!

Mordecai: Dammit - they're swarming me, Brick! Just leave me - keep going!

Brick: Like hell! I gotcha Mordecai!

Mordecai: No, Brick! NO!

Brick: RrrrAGH!

Hyperion AI: Locking onto drop-barge. Commencing lunar bombardment.

Mordecai: Crap - they got a lock on us!

Brick: Just go, slab! GO!--

Brick: RrrrAGH!

Entering the Vault of the Warrior
Handsome Jack: You're a plague, bandit. You and your kind have corrupted Pandora with your greed and your hatred. It comes down to me to save this world from your kind. But I am more than happy to do it.

(nearing the site)

Handsome Jack: This is where it all ends. Once Lilith here charges the Key, I'll control the Warrior and wipe you bandits off my planet. When you get to hell, tell your Vault Hunter friends I said 'hey'.

(Meeting Jack face-to-face)

Handsome Jack: Hey, you're right on time - Key's nearly ready! But before I cleanse this planet for good, I am gonna avenge my daughter!

(Jack critically wounded by Vault Hunter)

Handsome Jack: That it? HUH?!

Lilith: No! The Key's charged!

Handsome Jack: I'm not dyin' yet!

(Jack pushes Vault Key into slot)

Lilith: Unghh!

Handsome Jack: You're too late, bandit...

Handsome Jack: ...I WIN!

Handsome Jack: The greatest alien power Pandora has ever seen - and it's MINE to control!

Handsome Jack: WARRIOR!

( Warrior Roars)

Handsome Jack: KILL.

(The Warrior defeated)

Handsome Jack: NO!!!

Handsome Jack: This can't be happening... THIS CAN'T BE HAPPENING!

Lilith: Holy badass - I think you killed it. Never hurts to make sure, though: hit the button on the moonshot console.

(After finishing off the The Warrior with a moonshot)

Handsome Jack: No, no, no... I can't die like this... not when I'm so close... and not at the hands of a filthy bandit! I could've saved this planet! I could have actually restored order! I wasn't supposed to die by the hands of a child-killing psychopath! You're a savage! You're a maniac! You are a bandit AND I AM THE GODDAMN HERO!

Handsome Jack: The Warrior was practically a god. How - HOW in the hell have you killed my Warrior?

Handsome Jack: You idiots! The Warrior could have brought peace to this planet! No more dangerous creatures! No more bandits! Pandora - it could have been a PARADISE!

Lilith: This is the end, Vault Hunter. Either you kill Jack, or I'll kill him for you. What's it gonna be?

Handsome Jack: UNGHH!

(Only if Lilith kills Jack)
Lilith: That was for Roland, asshole.

Lilith: It's over...it's finally over. Good going, Vault Hunter. You...are a badass. Now... we just got to get rid of that Key.

Lilith: Wait a sec - let me. You don't wanna touch this thing right now, trust me.

Mordecai: Slow down, man - I nearly bought it back there. Hey - Lilith!

Lilith: Where the hell were you guys five minutes ago?! If it weren't for the Vault Hunter. We'd all be dead!

Brick: I think that's her way of saying we won.

Mordecai: I figured that.

Lilith: If I never see this Key again, it'll be too soon.

Lilith: It's been fun, you alien piece of sh--

Mordecai: Huh?

Brick: What the - are those Vaults?

Mordecai: Hehehe. You know what that means...

Lilith: Yeah. Heh - no rest for the wicked.