Valeria: ¿Que pasó, Vaquerito de mierda? ¿Comenzaste una guerra? A ti te persigue la violencia a todas partes, me cae. (What happened, fucking cowboy? Did you start a war? Violence follows you everywhere, I like it.)

Alejandro: Yo no hice ningún trato contigo- fueron ellos. (I didn't make a deal with you- They did...)

Valeria: Eso fue tu falta precisamente (That's your mistake).

Price: You knew there was a third missile?

Valeria: Oh, I didn't count them. I have people for that.

Alejandro: Yeah, she's lying.

Gaz: Where's Hassan?

Ghost: Where's the other missile?

Valeria: Chicago.

The four men react in surprise.

Gaz: What the fuck's going on?

Valeria: I said I'd tell you where he was, I didn't say I would stop him.

Alejandro: El scorpion a la verga. (You fucking scorpion.) I warned you she would do this, eh?

Valeria: I run a business, senores (gentlemen). We grow or we die. It's the way of the world.

Price: You put a target on your back.

Valeria: No- I put a target in Chicago...Now fucking leave Las Almas and go find it. Pendejos, pa fuera. (Fucking assholes, get out of here.)

Price turns to Alejandro.

Price: For now, she's yours... But, we'll be back...

Valeria: I look forward to it.

Price: Let's go.

Alejandro: Ahora chingada (Fucking come on...)

Alejandro grabs Valeria and hauls her out of the container with Price, Gaz, and Ghost following behind.

Price: Soap, prep for transport and get Laswell- Hassan and the missile are in Chicago.

Rodolfo waits outside in the tarmac with a convoy of military vehicles. He opens the door to one of them as Alejandro escorts Valeria to him.

Alejandro: Esta noche, Las Almas descansan... (Tonight, Las Almas can sleep...)

Valeria: I'll be free in 24 hours...

Alejandro hauls Valeria into a vehicle and she turns to face them.

Valeria: Can't say the same about you, Vaqueros.

Soap: You're going down for what you did.

Valeria: It doesn't matter what I did. It matters what you can prove...

Rodolfo closes the vehicle door as he and Alejandro turn to Soap.

Alejandro: Go... You have work to do.

Soap shakes hands with Alejandro and Rodolfo.

Soap: Keep fighting the good fight, hermano.

Alejandro: To the bitter end, my brother.

Rodolfo: Good luck, amigos.

Soap and Ghost turn to leave as their transport plane starts up its engines.

Alejandro: Ghost...

Ghost turns around to face Alejandro.

Alejandro: No te pierdas, carnal. (Don't get lost, brother.)

Ghost: A huevo. (Of course.)

Alejandro and Rodolfo smile and laugh as Ghost boards the plane. The doors to the ramp close shut.

The scene shifts to a computer display of the city of Chicago in the USA and photos of the missile and its container being delivered along with several other cargo containers.

Gaz: El Sin Nombre told us the third missile was smuggles into the United States through the Port of Chicago.

A photo of Hassan Zyani appears.

Soap: Hassan and his AQ soldiers are with it.

Ghost: We don't know exactly where the missile is or where it's headed.

The computer zooms in on a section of the map of Chicago with photos of the Arch Industries Tower and a balance sheet of its finances.

Price: We do know that Hassan was taken to a building in downtown Chicago owned by a shell company of the Las Almas cartel.

A photo of police boundary tape is displayed along with the cargo container carrying the missile.

Laswell: Police are on the ground cordoning off streets around the building. They're on the lookout for a stolen container full of weapons. They do not know we're dealing with a missile.

The computer displays Hassan's location at the building and a photo of a server room.

Laswell: We believe Hassan is holed up in a fortified server room on the 54th floor of this building. I will be on the ground working to locate the missile.

The computer outlines an orange route for Gaz and the US Marines leading up to the building through the Chicago River.

Gaz: I'll infil with the Marines on the Chicago River and move in on the ground level.

A green route for Ghost is outlined leading to a building.

Ghost: I'll heli up to an OP across from the objective for armed overwatch.

Two blue routes are outlined leading up to the building for Price, Soap, and the Marines to take.

Price: We'll touch two helos down on the roof of the target building one with a troop of Marines, the other with me and Soap.

The computer displays the target building and Gaz's route leading up from the ground to the 54th floor where Hassan's photo is marked. Price and Soap's route leads down from the roof to the 54th floor.

Laswell: While Gaz and the Marines push up the building, Price and Soap will work their way down, with Soap rappeling to the server floor, pinching Hassan in the middle.

Photos of the cargo container, a copy of the Rules of Engagement with black ink covering text, and Hassan's photo stamped with the word "EXECUTE" are displayed.

Laswell: Our primary mission is to locate and stop the missile. But, you have execute authority to kill Hassan.

Gameplay
JOHN "SOAP" MACTAVISH - TF-141, MARSOC MARINES

COUNTDOWN

CHICAGO, USA

04 NOV 2022 0200

Laswell drives in her vehicle through the streets of Chicago with a computer in one of her hands.

Laswell: Watcher-1 to Bravo-6 Actual. Perimeter is secure. We have a possible hit on the missile container. We're moving in now.

Price: Solid copy. All Bravo, move to set. We're on.

Laswell's car drives past where Gaz and the Marines on his team sail up the Chicago River.

Gaz: 0-5 copies all. Bravo 6-2 is twenty seconds from the target building. Intel reports multiple AQ inside.

Gaz looks behind him to see three helicopters containing TF-141 and the Marines flying in.

The scene shifts to Soap's helicopter as he and Price fly towards the target building.

Price: Ghost, get to your overwatch.

Ghost: Rog, on the move.

Price: Floor 56 is our primary objective. It's well-fortified with limited access. Hassan may be holed up there.

Soap: Copy. Let's nail this bastard once and for all, sir.

Price and Soap's helicopter hovers above the roof of the Arch Industries tower.

Price: Move.

Price and Soap jump down from the helicopter onto the roof.

Helo Pilot 1: Lifter 1-1, team deployed. Moving outbound.

Helo Pilot 2: Lifter 1-2, troops on deck. Outbound now.

Price: Bravo-6 moving to hook point.

Gaz: Copy. 5 is set on the ground floor.

Price and Soap reach the ledge of the roof.

Price: Soap, hook up.

Soap hooks up his rappelling line to an anchor point.

Price: Ghost, we're set. You have eyes on?

Ghost: A-firm. Flashing now.

In the distance, a flashing light can be seen signaling Ghost's overwatch position.

Soap: Copy visual, L.T. What've you got?

Ghost: Civilians.

Price: Hostages.

Soap: Hassan's buyin' time.

Price and Soap rappel down the side of the building towards the 54th floor.

Price: You lads clear all threats. Bravo-3 secures the hostages. RV on the target floor.

Ghost: Reposition if you need... Two x-rays below. You're clear to engage.

(If Soap rights himself up instead hanging upside down...)

Ghost: You're more visible to enemies this way.

Soap: Copy that.

Soap and Price reach the two enemy soldiers below.

(If Soap tries to move past the AQ soldiers...)

Ghost: Can't sneak past. They'll spot you.

Soap shoots the two Al-Qatala soldiers.

Ghost: Clear. Bravo-3, five-five secure.

Bravo 0-3: Copy. Floor 5-5. Making entry.

The Marines move in on the 55th floor.

(If Soap doesn't immediately move on...)

Ghost: Bravo's locked it down, Sergeant. Move.; Keep it moving, Sergeant.

Soap rappels further down the building towards the 54th floor.

Ghost: Four x-rays ahead. Three in the room, one in the hallway.

Soap moves into position.

Ghost: Four x-rays. Drop 'em fast.

(If Soap takes his time shooting the enemy soldiers...)

Ghost: They're drawing on the hostages!; You have to drop this guy, now, Johnny!

Soap dispatches the four soldiers inside.

Ghost: We're clear.

Price: Soap, sit-rep?

Soap: One floor to go.

Price: Copy, in position on the target deck.

The Marines move in on the floor. Soap rappels down the line to the next floor.

Ghost: Five x-rays on the next floor. Three moving. Two stationary. Get a visual before you engage.

Soap moves into position for the kill.

Ghost: There's five of 'em.; Three moving with a hostage...

Soap kills all five enemy soldiers on the floor.

Ghost: Bravo, we're clear on five-one.

Bravo 0-3: 0-7, copy. Moving.

The Marines move in to secure the 51st floor.

Soap: Price, all hostages secure.

Price: Copy. Rally on the server floor.

Soap rappels down to the server floor and sees Price set a breach charge on the window.

Price: Charge is set. Get clear.

Soap moves out of the way and Price detonates, breaching the window and allowing Soap to enter the building.

Price: Watcher-1, we're on the target floor. What's your status?

The sound of rumbling can be heard.

Price: Laswell, what the hell was that?

Laswell: John, the missile is active, it's in first stage. Be advised- controls are not in the container.

Price: That means Hassan has them. We're pushing into the target area. Out.

Soap: We need those controls.

Price: Let's hope Hassan's here.

Price and Soap move down the hall and bust open the door into a computer room. They encounter four Al-Qatala soldiers and eliminate them.

Soap: Clear!

Price: Negative on Hassan.

Soap: Why's Hassan using the server room?

Price: Most secure place in the building. Move up.

Price and Soap reach the door into another computer room.

Price: Take the door, Sergeant. Server room isn't far.

Price and Soap enter the next computer room and encounter more enemy soldiers that they kill.

Price: Clear!

Soap: Clear! No Hassan.

Price: All stations, negative on target, moving to control room, now.

Price and Soap reach the door leading into the next computer room and enter it, dispatching the Al-Qatala soldiers inside. They then reach the door into the control room, but find it locked.

Price: At the control room. Stack up.

Price takes out a massive sledgehammer and bangs it hard on the door, forcing it open. They enter the control room and see that it has been ransacked.

Soap: Feckin' hell. He's gone.

Price: Visual on the control room. All Stations, negative on Hassan. Control is a dry hole. Ghost, you got anything?

Ghost: A-firm. Possible visual. Forty-sixth floor.

Price: Copy, we're moving. Back up, Sergeant.

Price sets an explosive on the window and detonates it, blowing it open for Soap to rappel.

Price: Hook up.

Soap hooks up his rappel line to an anchor point.

Price: Entry point is four levels down.

Gaz: All Bravo, Five is making entry on floor forty.

Price blows open a window for him to rappel down from.

Price: Copy. We'll push him your way. Let's tighten the noose.

Price and Soap rappel down the building.

Price: Soap, we find those controls, it's up to you to disarm that missile.

Soap: Copy that. Done it once before.

Enemy soldiers appear on the next floor down inside a bar, including an RPG soldier that fires on Price and Soap.

Price: RPG!

The RPG fires and explodes, missing Price and Soap.

Price: Move in! Now!

(If Soap stays outside...)

Price: Soap, there's no cover out there!; I can't cover you, Sergeant! Get in here!; Get in here, Sergeant!

Price and Soap enter the building and engage the Al-Qatala soldiers inside.

Ghost: All Bravo, be advised-- Hassan is in the stairwell, he's moving down.

Price: Solid copy! Gaz- he's headed your way!

Gaz: Roger that!

Price and Soap eliminate the last of the enemy soldiers inside the bar.

Soap: Clear!

Price: Get to the stairwell. Gaz, sitrep?

Gaz: 0-7, target is cornered! Floor forty-six!

Price: Copy, we're moving to you!

Price and Soap reach the exit leading to the stairwell.

Price: On me, Sergeant. Let's hit the stairs.

Price takes out his sledgehammer and pries open the door with it.

Price: Downstairs, move!

Price and Soap move down the stairwell to the 46th floor. They reach a blown-open door and pass by several dead bodies. The sound of the missile launching is heard.

Laswell: All stations, missile is hot! I say again, the missile is launching!

Price and Soap run to the window and look outside at the launched missile flying away in the air.

Price: No, no, no-!

Soap: Feckin' hell!

Price: Watcher, where's the target?!

Laswell: Unknown. We're working on it.

Price: Copy. We're going for Hassan! This way, Sergeant!

Price and Soap meet up with Gaz and move to find Hassan.

Price: Gaz- Where's Hassan?!

Gaz: End of the hall! Hassan's held up behind those doors!

Price: Let's clear this out and bag him, then!

Price, Soap, and Gaz encounter more of Hassan's troops in the next room and kill them.

Price: Where's Hassan?

Gaz: We got him cornered in this room. Follow me.

Price and Soap follow Gaz into the other end of the room and reach a set of double-doors.

Gaz: Hassan's behind those doors.

Price: I'll snake a camera in there.

Price takes out a snake-cam and slips it under the door.

Price: Soap, get Positive ID on Hassan, we need those controls.

Soap: I'll get them.

Soap moves to the snake-cam. Suddenly, the doors explode, blowing Price, Gaz, and Soap to the ground. Hassan and two of his men run out of the room with a case containing the missile controls.

AQ Soldier 1: (in Arabic) Get to the elevators!

Gaz shoots one of the soldiers and drags Soap to cover as Hassan and the other enemy soldier fire on TF-141 and the Marines. The other of Hassan's soldiers dies, but Price is shot in the shoulder by Hassan as the latter retreats.

Gaz: Price!

Gaz runs over to Price and drags him over to Soap as one of the Marines is shot and killed.

Gaz: You broken?

Price: I'm good. Go, you got this.

Gaz: Soap, let's move!

Price: Watcher, Hassan has the missile controls. We're going after him!

Laswell: Copy. Be advised, the missile is headed towards D.C. We don't have much time to divert!

Price: We'll get 'em.

Gaz: Take point, Sergeant.

Soap and Gaz reach an open elevator shaft.

Gaz: We're taking the lift! Get in!

Soap and Gaz enter the shaft.

Gaz: Hassan's in the last car. Use the lift cars to get down there.

(If Soap doesn't move immediately...)

Gaz: Next car, Sergeant! Jump!; You have to jump to the next car, Soap!; Jump to the next car!; Hassan's in the next one!

Soap and Gaz jump down the shaft to the next car. Suddenly, an RPG rocket fires and hits near Soap. The explosion damages the elevator car as it begins to loosen and collapse.

Gaz: That car won't hold! Jump down!

(If Soap doesn't move immediately...)

Gaz: You have to move, Sergeant! Jump!

Soap jumps down to the next elevator car in time and pounces right on top of Hassan. Soap and Hassan look at each other and react quickly. Soap grabs the missile control case, while Hassan grabs a submachine gun and is about to aim it at Soap.

Gaz: Move, Sergeant!

Gaz fires at Hassan from the top and forces him to take cover, giving Soap time to exit the elevator car.

Hassan: You're dead!

Soap encounters two Al-Qatala soldiers arriving and runs off with the control case while under fire from the enemy troops.

Soap: Shit-

AQ Soldier 1: (frustrated grunt, in Arabic) We lost them!; Where are they?; Fuck! They got away!; Do you see them?; They're gone!

AQ Soldier 3: (frustrated grunt, in Arabic) Fuck! They got away!; We lost them!; Hey! They're right here!; They're gone!

AQ Soldier 4: (frustrated grunt, in Arabic) They're gone!; Where the fuck are they?!; (frustrated grunt) They're not here!; They're hiding...; Where'd they go?!

Soap runs through a floor that's under construction.

Price: Soap, what's your status?

Soap: Construction floor. Controls secured. Lost my weapon.

Price: Copy. Stay outta sight. Passing comms to Watcher-1.

Laswell: Soap, the missile was launched, so you'll have to remote-detonate it.

Soap: That, I haven't done...

Laswell: I will guide you, but it will take time. Open the controls when you're ready.

Soap runs throughout the construction floor, avoiding Hassan and Al-Qatala while trying to find a safe place to detonate the missile.

Hassan: You target and kill the unarmed from afar, like cowards. You sign treaties and you break them. As a soldier, it's my duty to respond to your actions... America is soft and weak. They start wars, but they have lost the will to fight. I told you your nation would see fire... We are your executioners. And we are in your home. How does that feel - huh?! We have resisted your forces from the Gulf of Oman to the eastern shores of the Mediterranean Sea. The American experiment has failed. Your empire has fallen from within. The West is soft because your people are weak... You are the world's greatest terrorists and now you terrorize yourselves. I will happily watch as he slices his throat with his own knife... How does it feel to be alone? You are all by yourself now... No one can save you... Hah, you have become the thing you are trying to destroy. How dare General Shepherd point his trigger fingers at my great nation. Sending his missiles to kill my people. Now his missile has come home...

(If Soap still hasn't found a place to hide...)

Laswell: Soap, get to a secure location and open the controls.; Get safe and open the controls. We have to do this now.; Sergeant, the missile is halfway to target. You need to finish the sequence.; Sergeant, you need to move fast. We have only have minutes...if that.

Soap finds a safe place to hide.

Soap: Okay, I'm back up.; Alright, I'm ready.

Soap finds a safe spot to operate the controls. He opens the case and looks at the screen, where the target is marked as Washington D.C.

Soap: Okay, I'm ready. Shite...the target is D.C. Shite-!

(If Soap still hasn't found a place to hide...)

Laswell: Soap, get to a secure location and open the controls.; Get safe and open the controls. We have to do this now.; Sergeant, the missile is halfway to target. You need to finish the sequence.

(If Soap is spotted by guards...)

Soap: Hold on-!; Stand by!

Soap must evade the guards and find another spot to hide.

AQ Soldier 1: (in Arabic) Hey, over here!; Hey! I see them!; Right here! Right here!; Right here, brothers!; There they are!

AQ Soldier 2: (in Arabic) They didn't just disappear...

AQ Soldier 3: (in Arabic) Where are they?; Do you see them?; They were right here...; You see where they went?; They can't be far...; Where'd they go?!

AQ Soldier 4: (in Arabic) Hey! They're right there!; Hey! They're right here!; I found them!; Over there!

AQ Soldier 5: Hey! I see them!; They're here! I see them!; Right here, brothers!; Hey! They're right there!; Hey, over here!; Where the fuck are they?!; I found them!

Soap operates on the controls.

Soap: Coordinates: Thirty-eight, negative seventy-seven.

Laswell: That's the Pentagon.

Soap: He's going for Shepherd.

Laswell: No, Shepherd's gone.

Price: Yeah, well there's 30,000 people who aren't. Finish it.

Laswell: Sergeant, first you have to enable diagnostic mode. Hit CLR and MODE at the same time.

Soap pushes both CLR and MODE at the same time.

Soap: Come the fuck on.

The screen enters diagnostic mode.

Soap: I'm in.

Laswell: Next is the override. You should see four columns of data. I need to know what's in row two, column three.

Here, the player must choose the correct data to input. If he fails, the the mission ends.

Laswell: Soap, what's in the third column, second row?

Soap enters the data as %ESP.

Soap: % Echo Sierra Papa.

Laswell: That did it. Now hit LEFT and CLR to initiate override.; LEFT and CLR, Sergeant.

Soap pushes both LEFT and CLR at the same time. The screen enters override mode where the green light blinks in between five nodes.

Soap: Override on.

Laswell: Copy. Get safe. This next part will make some noise. Press LINK when it hits the fourth position.; Last step. Hit LINK when the green light is in the fourth position.; You'll have to time it. Press LINK when green hits the fourth position.

At this point, the player has to hit the light on the fourth node or else the mission ends in failure.

Soap presses LINK when the light reaches the fourth position. All five positions light up green and the text reads "MISSILE SCUTTLED."

Soap: It's detonated.

Laswell: Copy that. Air Force will confirm. Thank you, Sergeant.

Soap: Yeah... Pleasure doin' business with ya, Laswell.

Laswell: Where's Hassan?

Soap: Not alone- he's got AQ guards with him. I'm gonna kill every one of 'em... and then I'm going for him. Out here.

Soap moves throughout the construction floor evading Al-Qatala guards.

Soap: Steamin' bloody fuckin'...

Ghost: Nicely done, Johnny. Now for the hard part.

Soap: That was the fucking hard part, L.T...

Ghost: Let's find out. You need to stay alive, take out the guards, and kill Hassan.

Soap: I just need a weapon.

Ghost: Make one.

Soap: Aye. Like old times, huh, L.T.?

Ghost: Seems like yesterday...

Soap: It was yesterday...

(If Soap finds a tool box that he can pry open...)

Soap: Could pry open one o' these tool boxes.

Ghost: Careful, Johnny, that'll make noise.

Soap pries open the toolbox and grabs a box cutter.

Soap: I found a box cutter.

Ghost: That'll do some damage.

(Every time Ghost chimes in with advice...)

Ghost: You're dealing with armored AQ- advise you stun 'em before going for the kill.

Soap looks for crafting materials.

Ghost: Look for crafting materials.; Find materials you can use to craft.

(If Soap finds a microwave...)

Soap: There's a microwave.

Ghost: Find some metal, you can spark it and distract one.

Soap: Where?

Ghost: Check the workers' scrap bins, ya might find some there.

(Every time Soap finds crafting materials...)

Soap: Found some scrap metal.; Got some tape.; Chemicals.; Found a mousetrap.; I can make a gas trap.; Found some chemicals.; Grabbed tape.; This can get me a gas trap.; Grabbed some metal. Could make a pry tool now. Got some metal.; This'll get me a pry tool.; Grabbed a candle. There's tape.; Found some wax.; Found some glass.

Ghost: Could be used for a trap.; Lob it where you like and lure 'em to it.; Good for a trap.; Get it placed and lure 'em in... Good for smoke traps.; Used for smoke traps, if you remember.; Find some tape, you got a shiv.; You can break glass for more, but it will compromise you.

(Every time Soap makes an improvised shiv...)

Soap: Crafted a glass shiv.

Ghost: That's the way, Johnny- stun one and stab him.

(Every time Soap uses a microwave to heat scrap metal and stun an enemy...)

Soap: Stunned one!; Got one stunned!

Ghost: Before you can attack, you'll need a weapon, Sergeant.; Until you have a weapon, don't attack 'em.; Use your shiv, stab him now!

Eventually, through various booby traps and improvised weapons, Soap overcomes all the Al-Qatala soldiers. Suddenly, he is shot from behind and falls to the ground. He looks up to see Hassan standing over him with his submachine gun aimed at Soap. Hassan pulls the trigger, but finds the gun to be empty and instead hits Soap in the head with the butt end. The screen cuts to black.

After some time, Soap wakes up and sees Hassan drag him by the leg towards a window.

Hassan: I told you your nation would see fire. You think you can stop me...?

Hassan stops dragging Soap and goes to the window and places an explosive on it.

Soap: Ghost...

Ghost: Soap...

Soap: Watch the window...

The window blows apart and Hassan walks up to Soap.

Hassan: We are not attacking...

Hassan hauls Soap up to his feet and brings him to his face.

Hassan: We are invading...

The scene shifts to Ghost on the rooftop of his building as he deploys his MCPR-300 sniper rifle and aims at the floor where Soap and Hassan are located. He sees Hassan hauling Soap over to the window preparing to drop him to his death. At this point, the player must shoot Hassan before Hassan can push Soap out of the building. If he either shoots Soap instead or lets Hassan drop Soap, the mission ends in failure.

Ghost fires a shot that hits Hassan in the head. Hassan collapses to the ground, dead. Soap drops to his knees and looks at Hassan before looking back to Ghost's position.

Soap: Perfect shot, L.T.

Ghost: You called it, Sergeant. All stations- Hassan's down. Enemy KIA.

The screen cuts to black. End of level.

Cutscene
The scene shifts to a bar in nighttime Chicago as the TV displays the evening news about the recent events in Chicago.

News Reporter: Officials are saying a power surge is to blame for an explosion over downtown Chicago last night due to severe winds leaving thousands of residents in the dark. Electricity is expected to be restored by this evening. In other news...

Laswell sits at the bar watching the news as Price brings two glasses of alcohol for him and Laswell.

Price: CIA shit...

Laswell: Hmm... Creative writing.

Price: I'll never tell.

Laswell grins. The mood changes more somberly.

Laswell: AQ... Iran...

Price: Cartels... Russians...

Laswell: Shepherd... Shadow... They got past us.

Price: Well, they had a head start. To cutting heads off snakes...

Price and Laswell toast their glasses and drink.

Price: Any sign of Shepherd?

Laswell: Totally off the grid.

Price: Well, we'll find him.

Laswell: No, we've got bigger fish... I've done some digging on the Russians.

Price: Well, that's a dirty job.

Laswell: Ultra-nationalists ambushed that convoy, John.

Price: Kate, this is over.

Laswell: No... it's not. They were working with someone new.

Price: Who?

Laswell takes out a photo from her vest and gives it to John to look at. John takes a look at the photo.

Laswell: We don't know his name.

Price: He's not new.

Price slides the photo to Gaz, who looks at it and then passes it on to Soap to look at and then Ghost. They all look at Price and Laswell.

Laswell: Who is he?

Price leans in to Laswell.

Price: Makarov.

The scene cuts to black.

Post-Credits Scene
A Russian pilot's voice rings out over the PA system in an airplane.

Pilot: (in Russian) Ladies and gentlemen, we've reached our cruising altitude. You're free to move about the cabin.

A flight attendant moves down the aisle of the cabin with beverages and food.

Flight Attendant: (over PA) We're beginning our meal service. A list of selections can be found in your seat pocket.

The flight attendant stops at a row of seats occupied by a few male passengers.

Flight Attendant: Beef, chicken, or fish, gentlemen...?

Passenger: Salad, please.

Price: Bravo-6 to Watcher-1. In position at the cafe. Two at the table to my 3 o'clock, one cartel, one Iranian.

Laswell: (over radio) How cozy. What are they up to?

Price: Conducting a transaction.

Laswell: Electronically.

Price: Affirm.

The scene shifts to Gaz and Laswell walking down an alleyway.

Gaz: They're paying the cartel for something...

Laswell: Let's figure out what...

Gaz: Security?

Price: Several.

Gaz: I'll deal with them.

Price: Well, don't take all the fun, eh?

Gaz: Copy- Coming' your way now.

Laswell slips an improvised tranquilizer into Gas's hands.

Laswell: Syringe.

Gaz: Poison?

Laswell: Non-lethal. It'll take 'em out of commission.

Gaz: CIA shit...

Gaz and Laswell reach the end of the alleyway leading into the street.

Laswell: Welcome to my world... Use the needle on the guards and we roll up our cartel friend...

Gaz: And you?

Laswell: Exfil. Say when.

Gaz: Roger that.

Laswell and Gaz split up with the latter trailing behind the former at a distance.

KYLE "GAZ" GARRICK - TF-141, CIA

TRADECRAFT

AMSTERDAM

29 OCT 2022, 0800

Laswell: 0-6, sitrep?

Price: Talking timeline.

Laswell: When are they moving?

Price: Tonight.

Laswell: Stay on 'em- We need to know what it is and where it's going.

Price: Copy.

Gaz and Laswell cross a bridge over the canal and spot two cartel members ahead of them.

Laswell: Hold up.

Gaz stays still while Laswell moves up to identify the cartel members.

Laswell: Two cartel guards. End of the bridge.

Gaz; Got a visual.

Laswell: Keep your weapons concealed. Let's see if they split up.

Gaz and Laswell watch the cartel members split up.

Laswell/Gaz: Okay, one's leaving./Good call. One's leaving.

Price: Heading my way.

Laswell: I'll tail him.

Gaz: I'll take the one at the bridge.

Laswell: Moving.

Gaz approaches the cartel member at the end of the bridge.

Cartel Member 2: (in Spanish) Get the fuck back!

Gaz jabs the cartel member with the syringe and lowers him onto a bench as the cartel member dozes off to sleep.

Gaz: Woah- easy, mate. One too many, huh? (to Laswell) Guard's down. Bridge is clear.

Laswell: Good work. Regroup on me.

Gaz walks through the crowded area toward Laswell's position.

Price: Watcher-1... The cargo is human- one VIP, bound for the US.

Laswell: Who, John?

Price: Major Hassan Zyani.

Laswell: That means he's in Mexico.

Gaz: Means there's time to stop him.

Laswell: We need to roll up our cartel friend for a talk, now.

Price: If Hassan gets a missile anywhere near the US- there'll be a death toll.

Gaz and Laswell take up positions in front of a tattoo shop.

Gaz: What's the call? There's guards all over him.

Price: We haven't scouted the area. There could be more guards.

Laswell: There's no time to case the area, John. We need a distraction.

Price: I've got something. Meet at the cafe, Gaz.

(If Gaz approaches the cartel and Al-Qatala representative...)

Price: Gaz, you're too close to the HVI. Get some distance.

Gaz walks to the cafe and meets Price at his table. Price holds his arm out under the table for Gaz.

Price: Take it.

Gaz takes a decoy grenade from under the table and conceals it.

Gaz: The bloody hell is this?

Price: Decoy grenade. It'll work. Get back to Laswell. Let's kick this off.

Gaz returns to Laswell.

Laswell: Down the alley. When panic starts to spread, that's when the cartel moves him.

Price: That's where I come in.

Laswell: On you, Gaz.

Gaz walks down the alley and reaches a dumpster. He opens it up, primes the grenade, and throws it into the dumpster.

Gaz: Goin' loud in 3...

The grenade goes off and attracts the attention of two cartel members, one of whom walks up to Gaz while the other walks up to Laswell.

Laswell: Gaz, the guards are incoming. Take one, I'll get the other.

Gaz: Rog.

Cartel Member 2: Hey! You! Don't fucking move!

Laswell: Now, Sergeant.

Gaz knocks out the first cartel member while Laswell does likewise with the other.

Gaz: Guards are down. Heading your way, Cap.

Price: Make it fast.

Gaz takes the cartel member's pistol and Laswell moves to another area.

Laswell: I'll secure exfil.

Gaz: Meet you at the bridge.

Gaz exits the alley and makes his way to Price's location.

Price: I'm moving in-!

The cartel member and his bodyguard leave the cafe, only to be ambushed by Price who knocks out the bodyguard and subdues the cartel representative with an arm lock.

Price: Shut your mouth. Follow me. Watcher-1, package secure. Heading your way.

Laswell: Copy.

Price and Gaz escort the cartel representative to their exfiltration point. Suddenly, three Las Almas members appear and open fire on the SAS soldiers. Civilians start screaming and running everywhere.

Gaz: Cartel! Behind us!

Price: Cover, Sergeant! Watcher-1, we're taking fire. Three hostiles to our South.

Laswell: Copy. I'm inbound. be advised, police are on the way. 3 minutes out.

Price: Drop 'em fast! We have to move!

Gaz dispatches the three cartel members. Price forces the cartel representative to the ground.

Gaz: Clear!

Price: Gaz, bring the syringe!

Gaz heads over to Price and the HVT.

Price: Jab him.

Gaz tranquilizes the cartel representative in the neck, knocking him out to sleep.

Price: Let's get him up...

Price and Gaz help the cartel representative to his feet and move him out of the area.

Price: Watcher, time to move...

Laswell: Copy, on my way...

Laswell drives up to Price and Gaz, who shove the cartel representative into the vehicle.

Price: Get him in.

Price and Gaz enter the vehicle.

Laswell: Nice work.

Gaz: You too.

Laswell: We need to find where they're moving Hassan and intercept him.

Price: We'll wake him up and have a little chat.

Price takes out a cigar and lights it.

Gaz: How do we know he'll talk?

Laswell: I can be very persuasive...

Price, Gaz, and Laswell drive off.

Cut to black. End of level.

Gaz: This is proof of life.

Price: Where did this come from?

Shepherd: Urzikstan.

Price: Look... They're pointing east.

Shepherd: Likely at Al Mazrah.

Gaz: They get her underground there, we'll lose her for good.

Price: We'll lead the rescue team.

Price starts to move before Shepherd interjects.

Shepherd: That's not gonna happen, John.

Price stops in his tracks.

Gaz: Say again, General?

Shepherd: This is a tug o' war, boys. We need to pull back, not lean forward.

Gaz: Since when?

Shepherd: Since now. We can't just send in the cavalry. These things take planning and preparation.

Price: These things take violence and timing, I can do both. Kate's life is in a fuckin' hourglass.

An airborne UH-60 Black Hawk approaches, which Gaz waves down

Shepherd: I know you're upset, Captain. This happened on your mission and that's a tough pill to swallow.

Price: Are you telling me, we leave her?

Shepherd: I'm telling you I can't help you... But I won't stop you.

Price and Gaz look at each other for a moment.

Price: I'll have her back in twelve hours.

Price closes the laptop.

Shepherd: Don't die doin' this, John. Laswell wouldn't want that. I don't either.

Gaz: General, I thought Kate was your friend?

Shepherd: War isn't about friends. It's about enemies. Good luck.

Price hands Gaz the laptop and they start walking toward the helicopter that's just landing.

Gaz: We'd be going head to head with AQ on their home turf. They're going to have hundreds more protecting Laswell. We need an army.

Price: I can get us an army.

Price and Gaz board the helicopter as Price turns to the cockpit.

Price: Nik!

Nikolai turns to greet Price and Gaz.

Nikolai: Where to?

The scene shifts to Urzikstan.

URZIKSTAN

A convoy of vehicles drives on the road through the desert. In one of the vehicles, Laswell sits in her seat under guard from Al Qatala fighters. On top of a mesa, a motorcycle comes to a stop. The driver lifts her goggles, revealing herself to be Farah Karim. A Liberation Force fighter speaks with Farah through the radio.

LF Fighter: (in Arabic) Commander, Al-Qatala's here.

Farah: (in Arabic) Copy, I see them. Go to the rally point and wait for us.

LF Fighter: (in Arabic) Yes, Ma'am.

Farah looks up to the skies to see Nikolai's helicopter fly by.

Farah: Captain- It's Farah. It's time.

Price: Rog. Wheels down in one.

Farah replaces her goggles and mask, and then revs up her motorcycle as she drives down the mesa.

Gameplay
Price: Nik, convoy's inbound. We're on.

Nikolai: Copy that.

Nikolai's Black Hawk flies over the desert to the road that the enemy convoy is driving on.

Nikolai: Over the HLZ now.

Price: Good. Set 'er down and hold.

Inside the helicopter, Price walks over to the helicopter hatch where Gaz is standing.

Price: Gaz, you stay in the heli on overwatch. We'll work our way up the line.

Gaz: Roger that. Let's thin the herd, get Laswell back.

Price and Gaz trade fist bumps before Price dismounts from the helicopter and walks over to Farah on her motorcycle.

Farah: Hey, old man.

Price: Farah, thanks for the assist.

Farah: We share a common enemy.

Price: And a friend in need. Are you ready?

Farah replaces her mask and goggles.

Farah: All set. See you down the road!

Farah drives off.

Price: All stations... we're on the move!

Farah: Copy!

Price runs over to a pickup truck and joins an attack force of Urikstan Liberation Force fighters on motorcycles and pickup trucks.

Gaz: Rog! Nik - green to go!

KYLE "GAZ" GARRICK - TF-141, LF

VIOLENCE AND TIMING

URZIKSTAN

01 NOV 2022, 1600

The rescue team drives at high speed to the road.

Farah: All station, we're up-- comms check...

Price: Good copy.

Gaz: Check.

Nikolai: Loud and clear.

Farah: The Al-Qatala convoy just passed us. We'll be right behind them.

Price: Copy. Nik, use the ravines for cover. We've got one shot to rescue Laswell.

Nikolai: Roger that.

Gaz: What vehicle is she in?

Farah: Al-Qatala has her in a black SUV, near the front of the convoy.

Price: We hit the escort vehicles first. Then, we secure Laswell before AQ can reach the border.

Farah: Watch your fire- There's civilians on the highway.

The rescue force reaches the very rear of the enemy convoy.

Nikolai: Captain, we are in range.

Price: All stations, weapons free.

Farah: (in Arabic) Soldiers, move in!

Al-Qatala's escort vehicles open fire on the rescue force.

Gaz: They know we're here now!

Gaz provides fire from the Black Hawk and shoots down the first rear vehicle's occupants.

Farah: They're down, keep pushing!

Gaz continues to provide cover fire for the rescue force as they reach the first truck full of AQ fighters.

Farah: (in Arabic) You two, take the truck!

LF Fighter 2: (in Arabic) Yes, Commander!

Farah's soldiers take control of the first truck.

Farah: Two AQ trucks ahead. AQ in the pick-up truck!

Gaz: Got a visual!

Farah drives up to one of the AQ trucks with a Molotov cocktail.

Farah: Throwing molotov!

Farah successfully throws the Molotov at the truck. burning the occupants inside.

Nikolai: Heh-heh... I missed Farah!

The rescue forces reaches another truck with an armored fighter inside it.

Farah: Bastard's armored! Aim for his head, Sergeant!

Gaz shoots the armored AQ fighter in the head.

Gaz: Slotted 'em!

Farah: Good shots, Sergeant!

(If Gaz's ammunition starts to run low...)

Gaz: Running low!

Nikolai: Ammo is next to you!

Another armored AQ fighter in the next truck aims a missile launcher at Nikolai's Black Hawk, causing the onboard alarm to sound.

Nikolai: Shit-! Enemy missile lock!

Farah: He's going to fire! Hit him now!

Gaz successfully kills the missile launcher.

Gaz: Launcher's down!

Nikolai: Fucking hell.

Price: Move up!

Farah: Check fire on the pickup truck! There's a friendly aboard!

Price: Thinning the herd, Farah!

Farah: Like old times, Captain!

The rescue force progresses through the mission, killing the AQ fighters in the convoy.

Farah: (in Arabic) Bothers, attack the next vehicle!

The Liberation Force pickup truck drives alongside the AQ vehicle, but the enemy vehicle swerves left, forcing the rescue vehicle to drives straight into a civilian vehicle and explode.

Farah: No-!

Gaz: Bloody hell!

Nikolai: More AQ, two trucks ahead!

Two AQ fighters with missile launchers aims at Nikolai's helicopter.

Nikolai: [Fuck!] AQ's locking on to us!

Gaz fires at the missile launchers, only to find that they're armored.

Gaz: Fuckers are wearin' armor!

Nikolai: Deploying countermeasures!

The missile launchers lock on to the helicopter and fire a missile.

Gaz: Nik! Incoming!

Nikolai: Hold on!

The missile hits the Black Hawk, causing the helicopter to rock back and forth.

Nikolai: Fuck! We're hit!

The helicopter's erratic movements cause Gaz to lose his TAQ-56 assault rifle and fall out of the helicopter.

Nikolai: Sergeant!

Gaz misses hitting the ground due to being tied off from the helicopter. He hangs upside down as a red civilian vehicle narrowly misses Gaz.

Gaz: Fuck-

Four Liberation Force motorcycles speed past Gaz as well.

Gaz: -ING HELL!

Gaz looks up to see Gas's helicopter stable in the air, but trailing smoke. He then pulls out his X12 pistol.

Price: Nik- What's your status?

Nikolai: Captain, Gaz fell out!

Price: Say again?

Nikolai: The Sergeant! He's gone!

Gaz: I'm not dead, Nik! I'm hanging from a bloody rope!

Nikolai: (in Russian) Holy shit!

Gaz fires his pistol at the AQ fighters in the next truck while hanging upside down.

Gaz: Pull up! Pull up!

Nikolai: Trying to...!

Farah: Throwing molotov!

Farah successfully throws another Molotov at the next AQ truck, burning the enemy fighters inside.

Gaz: Oh shit, shit-! Shit-!

Price: Gaz, what's your status?!

Gaz: A little busy right now, Captain!

(If Gaz shoots at any of his allies...)

Nikolai: Check fire! You're shooting friendlies!

LF Fighter 2: (in Arabic) Rocket out!

A Liberation Force fighter fires a rocket and successfully destroys the next AQ vehicle. Another civilian vehicle drives right past Gaz, narrowly missing him by a couple of inches.

Gaz: Nik, pull up! PULL UP!

Another civilian truck narrowly avoids hitting Gaz.

Gaz: Ho-ly-fuuuuuck-!

Another AQ fighter with a missile launcher aims at Nikolai's helicopter.

Nikolai: Shit-! Enemy missile lock!

Gaz successfully kills the missile launcher.

Nikolai: Outstanding, Gaz!

Another AQ vehicle forces a Liberation Force truck to drive straight into a civilian vehicles and explode.

Nikolai: NOOOooo--!

Gaz spots an Al-Qatala truck ahead.

Gaz: There's a truck ahead- get us over it!

Nikolai: I can try... Hang on!

Nikolai flies his Black Hawk over the enemy truck.

Nikolai: High as I can go-- you'll have to cut loose!

Gaz takes out his knife and cuts the rope he's hanging from, causing him to drop and land right on top of the truck.

Gaz: I'm free...!

Price: Get back in the fight, Sergeant!

Farah: The convoy's gaining distance, we have to keep moving up!

Gaz spots an Al-Qatala pickup truck, leaps onto it, and then hijacks the vehicle by throwing an enemy driver out onto the road.

Gaz: All stations, I secured a vehicle. AQ convoy's still in sight!

Price: Solid copy, Gaz! Keep thinning the herd and push up to Laswell.

Farah: I have some soldiers with you, Sergeant.

Gaz: Rog! What's your position?

Price: We're catching up. 6 out.

Gaz spots some of Farah's men ahead.

Nikolai: You're coming up on a green truck. Those are Farah's soldiers.

Gaz: Rog, I see 'em!

Gaz watches as an Al Qatala truck forces another one of Farah's trucks to collide with another civilian vehicle and explode..

Gaz: Dammit! Farah's mates just got hit!

Farah: We came to fight, Sergeant... Focus on the enemy and get up to Laswell.

Gaz alternates between driving his truck and shooting at the Al Qatala soldiers as he continues to move up the convoy. He spots another Al Qatala vehicle with an LMG onboard.

Gaz: Nik- what are you seeing...?

Nikolai: LMG ahead!

Gaz manages to kill the LMG soldier and then encounters more Al Qatala vehicles.

Nikolai: More AQ trucks! Careful! That one carries fuel drums!

Gaz: Bad move!

Gaz shoots the fuel drums, causing the truck to explode in a massive fireball.

Gaz: Tracking the convoy north-

Price: Solid copy. Stay on 'em. We're heading your way.

Farah: Gaz, Nik-- my spotters are reporting an AQ roadblock ahead.

Nikolai: Affirm, I see it. You might have to ram through.

Farah: Crash it-- Kill as many as you can...

Gaz: Shock and awe.

Gaz spots the enemy roadblock ahead as Al Qatala soldiers open fire on him. Gaz plows right through the roadblock, killing many of the enemy soldiers.

Gaz: Not today, boys... Nik, I punched through!

Nikolai: Copy, Sergeant. Be advised, there's a situation up the road...

Gaz continues to drive down the road and move up through the convoy until he spots several burning civilian vehicles ahead.

Gaz: What the hell is this?

Nikolai: AQ is deploying mines own the highway.

Gaz: These are civilians, Nik. AQ will burn for this.

Farah: I'll bring the matches...

Nikolai: Mines ahead, Sergeant.

Gaz spots the enemy planting mines on the highway. Several civilian vehicles hit the mines and explode violently.

Gaz: Where are these mines coming from?

Nikolai: Off a truck forward of your position.

Gaz drives past a civilian vehicle as it hits a mine and explodes.

Nikolai: Watch out!

Gaz: Damn! AQ's hitting civilians. We have to take out that truck!

Nikolai: You're closing on the mine-truck now!

Gaz: Solid copy.

Gaz reaches the truck carrying the mines and shoots the soldier deploying those mines.

Gaz: Mines are done!

Gaz drives up the highway as he pushes through the convoy.

Gaz: All stations, what's your status?

Price: Check fire- check fire, Sergeant. I'm in a cargo truck on your six about to pass.

Farah: Just passed the roadblock!

Gaz spots the cargo truck carrying Price and Farah's soldiers..

Price: Gaz!

Gaz: Captain!

Price: AQ's got reinforcements. You'll need some firepower! Hop in, Sergeant, let's go!

(If Gaz doesn't immediately board Price's truck..)

Price: Get in the truck!

Gaz drives up to Price's truck and leaps onto it.

Price: Good to see you in one piece. Take the grenade launcher.

Gaz grabs the grenade launcher from off of Price's back.

Gaz; Sweet heat, Captain... What's the word?

Price: We're getting close to Laswell, so they're changing tactics.

Gaz: How so?

Price: We were chasing them... Now they're gonna chase us.

Gaz: Let 'em try, sir... Let 'em bloody try...

Price: Check rear- It's Farah.

Price and Gaz look to the rear and find Farah driving up to them on her motorcycle.

Gaz: Gang's all here. Let's bring this home!

Farah drives alongside Price and Gaz.

Farah: Captain! Al Qatala's coming back this way... They'll try to box us in!

Gaz: Not if we can help it.

Gaz spots an incoming Al Qatala truck about to hit Farah.

Gaz: Here they come. Farah, watch it!

Farah swerves to the side in the nick of time as the Al Qatala vehicle speeds past them.

Price: Gaz, hit 'em with the launcher!

Gaz: Copy, I'm on 'em!

Gaz fires the grenade launcher and destroys the enemy pursuers' vehicles.

Price: Direct hit!; Good round!; Proper aim, Gaz!

(If Gaz hits Farah's team by mistake...)

Nikolai: Cease fire! That is Farah's team!

An armored Al Qatala vehicle attacks the rescue force, destroying one the vehicles.

Nikolai: LMG, on the right!

Farah: (in Arabic) Soldiers! Attack that machine gun!

Gaz helps his allies destroy the armored vehicle.

Gaz: Got the bastard!

Price: Nice work!

The rescue force faces off against the enemy convoy and then notices the convoy driving left off the road.

Nikolai: Captain, the convoy is diverting left!

Farah: They're taking a shortcut to the border!

Price: Copy, Nik! Stay on 'em!

Farah: Watch your backs!

Price: Dust 'em! Farah, stay close!

Farah: We're with you!

Price: Keep hitting the vehicles!

Gaz destroys the enemy vehicles with the grenade launcher.

Gaz: Clear in the back!

Price: Nik, do you have a visual on Laswell's vehicle?

Nikolai: Affirmative, Captain. But, there's a lot of Al Qatala between you.

Gaz: Leave that to us!

Price: Just don't lose her, Nik. 6 out.

Farah: AQ's best soldiers will guard Laswell. We're getting close!

Price: We need to spread out. Gaz, secure a vehicle. We'll hit 'em from every angle we can.

(If Gaz doesn't immediately board an enemy vehicle)

Price: Take another vehicle, Gaz. We need to spread out.; Gaz, load up and secure a vehicle.

Gaz takes control of an enemy vehicle.

(If Gaz's vehicle takes enough damage...)

Price/Nikolai: Sergeant, you need new wheels.

Gaz moves up through the convoy, alternating between shooting the enemy soldiers and driving his vehicle. He comes upon another group of Al-Qatala vehicles, one of which aims a missile launcher at Gaz.

Farah: Enemy missile! He's on you, Sergeant!

Price: He's looking on to you, Gaz!; Take him down, Sergeant!

Gaz successfully shoots the missile launcher soldier.

Farah: He's down! Move up!

Nikolai: All stations, AQ is deploying bomb drones ahead!

Price: Solid copy, Nik!

Gaz: How did AQ get bomb drones?

Farah: Major Hassan! (in Arabic) Soldiers! Careful, bombs in the sky!

LF Fighter 2: (in Arabic) Yes, Commander!

Farah: I see them! Up ahead!

Price: Take 'em out fast or we're done!

Gaz alternates between shooting down the drones and driving his vehicle.

Nikolai: Gaz, the drone pilot is in the rear of the truck! Take him out-!

(If one of the drones manages to hit Gaz's vehicle...)

Farah: Gaz, you wounded?

Gaz: Not yet!

Price: Another hit like that and you will be!

Gaz kills the drone pilot.

Gaz: Got the drone pilot!

Gaz drives up to find an enemy APC ahead of him.

Nikolai: Be advised, enemy APC ahead!

Gaz: We don't have the firepower to take on an APC!

Farah: Get in close! When you're ready, I'll draw its fire so you can board!

Gaz: Copy that!

Gaz drives after the enemy APC, which fires on Gaz with its machine gun and deploys mines at the same time.

Gaz: Bloody hell-!

Price: Keep moving, Gaz! Don't get caught in its fire!

Farah: Sergeant, you have to get close to the APC!

Gaz drives up to the rear of the APC.

Gaz: I'm in position!

Farah: Okay, get ready!

Farah drives up in front of the APC, drawing its fire from Gaz.

Farah: Now, Sergeant! Board the APC!

Gaz leaps from his vehicle and onto the APC, shooting an Al-Qatala soldier that pops up out of the hatch.

Price: Plant a charge and get out of there, Sergeant!

Gaz places an explosive charge on the dead enemy soldier's body and shoves the body back into the APC, before closing the hatch.

Gaz: Charges set!

Price's allied vehicle drives alongside the APC on the left side.

Price: On the left! Jump across!

Gaz jumps off the APC and onto Price's vehicle. The APC explodes and flips onto the ground.

Gaz: Good det.

Price: Copy that.

Farah: Captain, we're approaching the border!

Price: Rog- Nikolai, block 'em with the helo!

Nikolai: I'm on it, Captain!

Nikolai flies his Black Hawk ahead of the group as Farah drives ahead and reaches the front of the convoy.

Farah: Contact!

Price: Check fire! Laswell and Nikolai are ahead of us!

Gaz: Copy that!

Price and Gaz join Farah and her soldiers as they attack and kill the Al Qatala fighters.

Price: Laswell's in the black SUV, Sergeant. Move in.

The rescue force eliminates all the remaining Al Qatala soldiers.

Price: Black SUV, Gaz. Move yer arse.

Gaz approaches the black SUV ahead.

(If Gaz doesn't immediately move to secure the SUV...)

Price: Gaz, open it.

Gaz reaches for the passenger side door. Suddenly, Laswell leaps out from the vehicle with an Al Qatala fighter, whom she elbows in the face and puts into a chokehold with the soldier's rifle.

Gaz: Kate!

Farah: (in Arabic) Let go-- drop your weapon!!

Price: Laswell, clear! Kate- move!

Laswell: No-! He's mine...!

Laswell snaps the soldier's neck, killing him.

Price: Check it.

Gaz checks out the SUV for any more soldiers. Laswell gets up to her feet as Price tries to calm her down.

Gaz: All clear!

Price: Kate- It's over... It's over.

Laswell calms down.

Laswell: It's a family reunion.

Gaz: Wouldn't miss it.

Laswell looks at Farah gratefully.

Laswell: Farah.

Farah: Nice moves, Laswell.

Laswell: You too... All of you.

Price: We're in Al Mazrah- we gotta get somewhere safe... now.

Farah: Captain's right.

Price and Gaz escort Laswell to Nikolai's helicopter and Farah goes to rejoin her troops.

Farah: (in Arabic) Back over the border, I'll take point.

Graves: Y'all got a clear picture?

General Shepherd and Laswell are in their respective offices watching the video uplink.

Shepherd: Crystal.

Laswell: All set.

Graves: All right, we are live, folks.

Hassan: Do you speak Arabic?

Graves: No.

Hassan: Farsi.

Graves: No.

Hassan: Course not. Then I'll speak your bastardized medieval English because you are all uneducated street dogs.

Graves shakes his head.

Graves: Ahh, see... we're getting off to a bad start here, Hassan.

Hassan: You are talking to a Quds Force officer.

Graves: You're the commander of a foreign terrorist organization.

Hassan: I can say the same to you.

Graves: What's your target, "Major"?

Hassan: What was your target when they sent missiles to my land?

Graves: Oh well, wild guess... To nail your ass.

Hassan: So insolent and foul-mouthed. You will learn to respect me when your nation sees fire.

Graves walks up to Hassan, menacingly.

Graves: You are in bed with the cartel, Hassan. If you disappeared, no one would know where to look for the fuckin' stain.

Hassan: (chuckles) I have no doubt you'll take pleasure in torturing me.

Soap: Who'd you get American missiles from?

Shepherd: I don't care who they're from, I wanna know where they're going.

The sounds of coyotes howl in the distance.

Graves: Take a look around, Hassan. Now you can either become part of the food chain or you can start talking.

Hassan: I'm a hostage here. This is illegal.

Alejandro: You are a prisoner of war.

Hassan looks back and forth between his captors and the video uplink.

Hassan: Iran is not at war with Mexico. I've broken no laws. These men and their commanders are the law-breakers.

Soap: You and your beloved General Ghorbrani broke every--

Hassan: DO NOT SPEAK HIS NAME! You executed him and you will pay for your crimes... (In Arabic) Only God can help you now...

Shepherd: I want this bastard in permanent custody or looking up at the damn grass.

Laswell: General, killing Hassan is an act of war, keeping him is illegal. Right now, he is too hot to hold.

Shepehrd: Tell me you're getting something actionable, Laswell.

Laswell: Working on it. Stand by.

Graves places the laptop on the hood of a vehicle.

Graves: Actual, let me finish this.

Shepherd: There is nothing I would like more. But, Laswell's right. Without proof, we need to turn him loose. See where he leads us.

Soap: He's right here. You can't be serious.

Shepherd: I'm afraid I am, son.

Hassan chuckles. Ghost looks at Hassan's phone in his hands.

Ghost: Did we get anything from his phone?

Laswell looks on her computer screen at a map displayed.

Laswell: Affirmative. We got a hit.

Shepherd: Good. Now, take him back and let him go.

The team exchanges looks and then places Hassan's blindfold back on.

Alejandro: (in Spanish) Up, asshole. Let's go.

Alejandro hauls Hassan to his feet as Ghost slips Hassan's cell phone back into his jacket. Soap closes the laptop and cancels the video uplink. The scene switches to a computer screen displaying the globe. Images of Hassan's phone and a cell tower appear along with a line tracing to Spain.

Laswell: The data hacked from Hassan's phone in Mexico went through a cell tower off the Coast of Spain. Hassan was communicating with someone there when we caught him.

The computer displays the coordinates of the phone call and the text "Approximate Location Determined". The computer then displays the hatchery on the Coast of Spain with blueprints for the building and a map of the complex.

Laswell: Signals track to a hatchery used by the cartel as a smuggling front. It's remote and on the water.

Price: Perfect to move illegal cargo.

Gaz: Including missiles.

Images of a barge full of cargo containers appear with a missile propped up from a container.

Laswell: We need to get on the ground and see if the missiles are there.

The computer displays schematics of a missile and photos of the hatchery complex.

Laswell: Imagery shows at least 4 structures and a lighthouse. We need eyes inside, but it's heavily guarded by cartel.

Price: The high grass lends itself to concealment in the right gear.

An image of a sniper in a ghillie suit is displayed.

Gaz: Ghillie suits.

A satellite image of Laswell on a boat in the water appears next.

Laswell: Exactly. I'll watch the coast for movement and provide exfil by boat.

Price: You shouldn't be alone out there, Kate. One is none.

A photo of a document detailing the rules of engagement is displayed with black ink covering certain text.

Laswell: Three's already a crowd. We have no jurisdiction here, John. We roll low and slow. This is unauthorized recon by fire. We're off the books. I'll call you when I'm in position. Let's find these missiles before Hassan puts them in our backyard.

The satellite image zooms in on Laswell's boat.

Gameplay
Laswell's boat floats off the coastal area. Laswell lays low on the boat, grabs her sniper rifle, and places herself on overwatch.

Laswell: Watcher-1 to Bravo- I'm in position, half a click off the coast. Structures are visible. What's your status?

The scene switches to the countryside where a truck drives down the road toward the hatchery.

Price: We're set at our firing point. Eyes on a pair of armed targets hiding in the field.

Laswell: You're green-lit. Execute when able.

Price: Rog'. Stand by... Gaz?

The camera pulls back to reveal two snipers in ghillie suits overlooking the field.

Gaz: No wind. 200 meters. On me.

The first sniper is shot and killed, followed a second later by the second sniper.

Laswell: Bravo, what do you have? Bravo, how copy?

The camera pans left to reveal Captain John Price and Sgt. Kyle "Gaz" Garrick in their own ghillie suits and using their MCPR-300 sniper rifles.

Price: Solid, Watcher. Two down.

Laswell: Good work. Push forward, see what you can fine.

The camera switches to Gaz's POV.

KYLE "GAZ" GARRICK- TF-141, CIA

RECON BY FIRE

SPAIN

31 OCT 2022, 1100

Price: Eyes on mobile patrols and a group team ahead of us. Scope in, Sergeant and let's see what we're dealing with.

Gaz looks through his scope at the enemy team ahead.

Gaz: I see 'em. Cartel?

Price: Likely. Let's low crawl around them, see what they're trying to keep us away from us.

(Alternatively, Gaz can open fire on the patrols, thereby alerting the enemy and forcing him and Price to break their cover. This will force the convoy to drive down the road while enemy reinforcements arrive to face Price and Gaz.)

Price: He's alerted! Ah, fuck. Here they come. Watcher, we are engaging the convoy.

Price and Gaz shoot all the cartel guards in the area.

Price: Not bad, Sergeant. A long way from your days on the Police force. Let's keep moving.

The player has the option for two dialogue choices.

I miss my old job.
That wasn't for me.
Gaz: I miss my old job.

Price: Well, I'd hate to lose you, but you could always go back.

Gaz: Thank you, sir.
The player now has the option to engage in further dialogue between Price and Laswell.

How did you and Captain Price meet, Laswell?
How did you and Laswell meet, Captain?
Gaz: How did you and Captain Price meet, Laswell?

Laswell: I like street food. John and I met at a falafel stand in Lebanon.

Gaz: Seriously?

Laswell: No. It was an airport bar in Lisbon.

Gaz: For real now?

Price: She's pulling your leg, Sergeant.
After either dialogue option, the player can choose to either pursue the conversation further or cut it off altogether.

Alright, you can both piss off- I don't even wanna know how.
Fucking hell, come on...
Gaz: Alright, you can both piss off- I don't even wanna know how.

Price: Suit yourself.

Laswell: You're missing out, Gaz- it was actually quite pedestrian.

Gaz: You met crossing the street?

Price: Oh, that's funny, Gaz...
Price and Gaz crawl forward through the grass.

Price: Keep down, stick to the grass. We don't need to fight them.

Laswell: Watcher to Bravo- how we doing, boys?

Price: On the move, Laswell. Cartel guards in the field.

Laswell: Anything that can hold a missile?

Price: Negative.

Laswell: Copy, keep pushing. Out.

Price and Gaz stop crawling and spot two guards.

Price: Hold up- there are two on the left side. Use your thermal to spot my laser.

Gaz looks through his scope and sees Price's laser spotting the two guards.

Gaz: Eyes on.; I've got 'em.; See 'em.

Gaz shoots the first guard and Price kills the second one.

After killing the two guards...

Price: Let's push up. Stick close.

Price and Gaz crawl forward through the field.

Laswell: Bravo, this is Watcher- what's your status?

Price: Near the wind turbines.

Laswell: Copy. Get to the tree-line forward of your position. It'll give you some cover.

Price: Copy.

Price and Gaz keep crawling forward until they hear enemy vehicles inbound.

Price: Hold it. Vehicles incoming.

A container truck drives down the road, followed closely by two troop transport trucks.

Price: See that? Container truck.

Gaz: Yep. Right size for a missile.

Price: Let's track it. Bravo to Watcher. We have transports moving north of our position.

Gaz: One's hauling a container. It may have the missiles.

Laswell: Copy- that's what we're here for- Moving along the coast for a better view, stay on it.

Price: Rog. Out.

Price and Gaz approach a tunnel under the road.

Price: Tunnel, under the roadway, let's use it to cross to the other side.

Gaz: Yep- on you.

Price and Gaz crawl through the tunnel to the other side.

Gaz: Cartels and terrorists... Strange bedfellows, huh?

Price: Terrorists are all about the past. Narcos are all about the future.

Gaz: What's the common ground?

Laswell: Territory and fresh blood- They both attract the youth. Always a long line of recruits.

Price and Gaz reach an area with taller grass.

Price: Grass is higher. We're more concealed. Crouch and keep a low profile.

Price and Gaz crouch forward through the field until they come to a halt.

Price: Hold up. Got movement, approaching. Small patrol- dead ahead.

Price and Gaz drop down to a prone position as an enemy patrol appears over the horizon.

Price: Hide your gun, Gaz.

The player has the option to conceal his weapon. Gaz does so.

Price: Try to anticipate their paths. If you have to maneuver, do it slow and steady. No quick movements. Keep your head still, it's gonna be close.

Price and Gaz stay low in the grass, moving only when necessary to avoid being detected by the enemy patrol. Eventually, the enemy patrol completely passes by Price and Gaz.

Price: Hold here- Got two more ahead. Use thermal for a visual.

Gaz takes out his rifle and looks through the scope to see the two guards. He aims at and shoots one of the guards while Price does likewise with the other, killing them both.

Price: We're safe to move.

Price and Gaz continue onward until they come to small building ahead.

Price: Gaz, structure ahead. No one outside.

Gaz: Could be men inside.

(If Gaz stands up while in the field)

Price: Get down, Gaz.; Keep low, Sergeant.; Gaz, get down.

Price and Gaz move through the field stealthily until they reach the building.

Price: Use your heartbeat sensor, check if the building's clear.

Gaz takes out this heartbeat sensor and sees no signs of enemy on the screen.

Gaz: Clear. Nothing inside.

Price: Roger. Let's keep moving.

Price and Gaz continue on with their mission until they reach a stone wall. They spot the transports from before and an enemy patrol nearby.

Price: Looks like they stopped for a chat. No need to engage, we can pass by undetected.

Price and Gaz watch as the transports resume driving down the road.

Price: It's on the move again, no visual.

Laswell: Copy. I'll watch for it.

Price: Let's keep moving.

Price and Gaz move down the stone wall and reach the trees ahead.

Price: Tree-line ahead. Let's get up there.

Price and Gaz reach the tree-line, allowing them to stand up.

Price: Trees'll give us some better cover but let's stay sharp.

Laswell: Be advised- container truck has pulled in. They may be loading it into the warehouse. Multiple armed personnel in proximity.

Gaz: Copy.

At this point, the player can engage in dialogue with Laswell if he chooses.

Kate...?
Laswell?
Watcher...?
Gaz: Kate...?

Laswell: Kyle, what's up?
If the player engages in dialogue with Laswell, several options appear.

Good to be back in the field?
You done this before?
What's your favorite weapon?
Gaz: Good to be back in the field?

Laswell: I'm here because this happened on my watch. I need to know how.

Price: We go after known, likely and suspected targets, Kate. This one's all three...

Gaz: I'd get in a foxhole with you two any day. Let's get this unfucked.

Laswell: One of these missiles hits a city... people are gonna die.
More dialogue options appear regarding Kyle's favorite weapon.

LMG.
SMG.
ARs.
DMR.
Shotgun.
Sniper rifle.
Gaz: LMG.

Laswell: Firepower and high mag capacity. I like your style, Gaz.

Gaz: Oh, yeah. Didn't know you were such an enthusiast, Laswell.

Laswell: I'm not a marksman, but I know me some guns, Gaz.
The player can choose a few more dialogue options concerning the sniper rifle.

Bolt action - more reliable, lighter, fewer moving parts.
Semi-auto - Love me that volume of fire.
Gaz: Bolt action - more reliable, lighter, fewer moving parts.

Laswell: Fieldcraft... Know where the word sniper came from?
The player can choose dialogue options about the sniper.

No. Where?
You, Captain?
Matter of fact, I do.
Gaz: No. Where?

Laswell: From bird hunting. Bird called a Snipe. Highly camoflouged from predators. If you could hit one, you were called a sniper...
Price and Gaz make their way to a ridge overlooking the hatchery.

Price: Well, we're nearly there, just past this ridge, we'll have a sightline to the main building. If the missiles are here, they might be inside...

Price and Gaz move past the wind turbines in the area.

Price: Moving along the wind turbines, closing in on the ridge, Laswell.

Laswell: Good, you're coming up on the main buildings. You'll see it from the top of the hill.

Price: Weather's on our side. Plenty of fog, low vis.

Gaz: That and the Ghillies should keep us hidden.

Price and Gaz reach the top of the ridge looking down on the main building.

Price: Eyes on the main building, 400 meters at 1 o'clock.

Laswell: Copy that.

Price: Find a spot in the grass, let's see who's who in the zoo...

Price and Gaz take up sniping positions in the grass and looks rough their scopes to scout out the enemy,

Price: Get on your scope and scout the area.

Gaz looks through his scope and sees the entire main building is full of cartel guards.

Gas: Holy hell, Captain. Target rich environment.

Price: Affirmative. Cartel all over the place. Use your variable zoom from here. It's a long way down...

Gaz zooms in on scope.

Price: Hold fire. Don't engage until I help us adjust for distance.

After a brief moment, Price chimes in to Laswell.

Price: Watcher- we're set.

Laswell: Take out as many as you can from that OP. Start with the outliers.

Gaz: Solid copy. Let's get to it, sir.

Price: On you...

Gaz zooms in on a group of civilians.

Price: Those are civilians. They're unarmed.

Gaz: The fuck are civilians doing here?

Price: It's a working hatchery. Someone's gotta feed the fish...

(Every time Gaz zooms in on a lone guard.)

Price: It's just him.; It's only him.; He's all alone.

(Every time Gaz zooms in on a two-man patrol.)

Price: Take him, I'll drop the other.; Burn him- I'll take the other.; Take one- I'll dump the other.; Other guy left, he's all yours.; On your go. Dump him- his mate's mine.; I've got his friend.

(Every time Gaz zooms in on a three-man patrol.)

Price: Two others can see him. Try moving to a spot where you can take out two with one bullet.; Two others can sight on him. Shift your position to take out two with one bullet.; He's in sight of two others. Can you shift your position to take out two in one shot?; He's in sight of two others.

(Every time Gaz zooms in on a four-man group.)

Price: Hold up, three others got sight of him. Some may break off.; Patience, Sergeant. Several cartel guards can see him. They may split up, stand by...; Careful, he's in sight of others. Some may split off.; Wait for it...

One of the guards breaks off from the group.

Price: One split off, three left. Can you relocate to line up two in one shot?

(Every time Gaz gets into a position where he can take out two guards in a three-man patrol.)

Gaz: I'm lined up.; I'm in position.

Price: Take out two in one shot. I got the other.; Take those two out with one bullet. I got their friend.; I've got his friend.; Burn him- I'll take the other.

(If Gaz doesn't shoot two men at the same time)

Price: Listen for my distance callout, and lead your target if they are moving.

(Every time Price measures the distance from their position to a targeted enemy soldier.)

Price: Four notches.; Compensate three and a half notches for bullet drop.; Three and a half notches for bullet drop.; Three and a half notches.; Three notches.; Three notches for bullet drop.; Compensate two and a half notches for bullet drop.; Two and a half notches for bullet drop.; Two and a half notches.; Two notches.; One notch.

Price and Gaz get to work on eliminating the enemy guards.

(Every time Price and Gaz successfully snipe an enemy)

Gaz: Cartel kickin' the bucket.; Clean hit.; Finished him.; Dumped him. Hit him.; Dusted.; Ahh, fallen' down on the job... That's a fatality.; Got him.; Dropped him.; Right on target.; Dirt nap.; Bullseye.; Smoked him.; Smoked 'em.;

Price: We still got it.; Open season on sicarios.; Another dead narco.; Nice shot.; Good shooting.; Clean shots.; Early retirement.; Nice fucking shot.; Done like a professional.; Nice one.; Las Almas cartel is hiring.; Bad day to be a narco.; Bad day at the office.; He's down.; Good shit. Looks like the scout sniper course is still worth a damn.; His day's over...

(Every time Gaz misses a shot)

Price: (sighs) Seriously, Kyle. Have you had your eyes checked recently?; You're lucky I'm here.; That was close, how about we be more careful.

Price spots moving patrols down below.

Price: Stay sharp... We can't let them reach the bodies of the other patrol.

(If Gaz tries to enter the main building before eliminating the guards outside.)

Price: We need to take out all exterior cartel before you can make entry, Kyle.; You're getting a bit too close, we're stronger from a distance.

(If Gaz waits long enough to zoom in on the guards.)

Price: Use your thermal, see what I'm lined up on.

(If Gaz zooms back in o the civilians...)

Price: You're looking at unarmed individuals, Sergeant.

Eventually, Price and Gaz eliminate all the guards on the outside.

Price: Looks like we're clear. Time to head down and find a way inside. I'll cover you from here.

The player can engage in dialogue choices with Price.

Why me and not you, Captain?
You go, sir. I'll cover you.
Let's go together - Two's better than one, right, sir?
Gaz: Why me and not you, Captain?

Price: That's why they call me Captain and you Sergeant. Get moving...
Gaz: Roger, copy and check, sir...

Laswell: Be advised- no movement on my side. If they're transporting missiles, they're either long gone or somewhere in these structures.

Price: Let's hope it's the latter...

Gaz makes his way down to the main building.

Laswell: You there yet, Sergeant?

Gaz: Bloody hell, Laswell, it's a long way.

Price: We didn't all run cross country in college, Kate.

Laswell: I still run, John. Just gotta stop smoking.

Gaz: You smoke, Laswell?

Laswell: I do... my wife hates it. Tryin'a quit. Jonesing, big-time.

Price: Can I interest you in a cigar, perhaps?

Laswell: No thanks, John.

Price: Hold up. Gaz, you got vehicles headed your way from the rear of the building.

Gaz spots two enemy vehicles leaving the main building.

Price: Appears they haven't seen you, go easy. Use the grass to stay concealed.

The enemy vehicles park on the road ahead and cartel guards dismount.

Price: Lay on the grass and hide your weapon. They're exiting the vehicles. You can evade them if you're still. If you're looking for a gunfight, you'll get one.

(If Gas chooses to keep his weapon revealed, he can zoom in on a three-man patrol.)

Price: Careful- He's got sight of three others. Some may split off.; They're wearing armor. Aim for the head if you engage...; Aim for the head.

If Gaz chooses not to engage, he can hide and slip by the patrols.

Price: You're clear. Well done, Sergeant.

Gaz: Thanks for the assist, Captain.

Price: Well, you're doing the hard part.

Gaz: Glad you noticed.

Price: It's good training.

Gaz: Are we training, sir?

Price: We're always training, Sergeant.

Gaz: Word.

Gaz approaches the hatchery complex.

Price: Appears you're clear to cross the road and look for a way in.

Gaz: Roger that. On the move.

Price: Several gates open around the main building.

Alternatively, Gaz chooses to engage the patrol and he will kill them with Price's assistance.

(If Gaz throws a grenade...)

Price: Damn! They saw your grenade!

Gaz enters the main building through the gate.

Gaz: Through the gate...

Laswell: Copy. Find a way inside, we need to know if missiles are hidden in those structures.

Gaz reaches the first building. He tries to open a door, but finds it locked.

Gaz: Fuckin' hell.

Gaz climbs up to the roof where he spots several cartel guards through the skylight windows.

Price: Those skylights should give you the upper hand.

Gaz: Literally...

Gaz then reaches a ventilation duct.

Price: Put tear gas in the ventilation, they'll run out like rats. I can help you pick 'em off from here.

Gaz rips open the duct grating.

Gaz: Deploying tear gas, get ready, Cap...

Price: Copy, I'm set.

Gaz throws a tear gas grenade down the duct. It explodes, causing the men to run out in a disoriented state. Gaz shoots down the guards from above. Price snipes an enemy guard.

Price: Shooter down.; He's down.; Hit one!

Alternatively, Gaz can simply shoot the enemies through the skylights.

Gaz: Hot on the roof, cover me...; Roof's leaking.; Heads up, asshole.; Sky is falling, fucker.; Death from above.; Down!; Hit one!; Got another!

Gaz eventually eliminates the guards inside the first warehouse.

Gaz: Warehouse is clear.

Price: That container's inside. Check it and inspect the warehouse for any sign of Hassan's missiles.

Gaz enters the warehouse and opens up the cargo container. Inside, he finds only guns and drugs.

Gaz: Holy hell... This is definitely a cartel outpost.

Laswell: What do you see?

Gaz: Metric shit-ton of drugs. Warehouse is full of firearms, pills, raw materials.

Laswell: Hassan's in deep with the cartel- But this isn't a drug bust. If those missiles are here, we need to find them.

Price: Gaz, be advised- you got armored patrols moving in from the other building. Appears there's five of them. Suggest using your heartbeat sensor and taking headshots with your suppressed sniper rifle.

Gaz moves through the area, watching for the armored guards..

Price: Watch the doors, Gaz.

Gaz spots an armored guard.

Price: It's only him.; Aim for the head.; Other guy left, he's all yours.

Every time an armored guard is killed...

Price: One down.; That's two.; Three gone.; Four.; Five...

Once all the armored guards are dead...

Gaz: Appears you can do math, sir.

Price: Gettin' cheeky, are you?

Gaz: Eh, just taking the piss, Captain.

Price: Good to laugh while we still can.

Laswell: Stay on point, boys...

Gaz: Yes, ma'am.

Laswell: Don't ma'am me... Remember, I can still outrun you...

Price: Area clear of cartel. All dead from rapid onset of holes in the head.

Laswell: I wanna know if it's clear of missiles- check the next building.

Price: Same drill, Gaz... You can breach in, use the skylights or deploy tear gas into the ventilation and watch 'em run for it... You got breachers for the doors if you need 'em, Sergeant.

Whichever method Gaz chooses to clear the building, he will eventually eliminate all the cartel guards in the second building.

Gaz: Hatchery building is clear. No containers big enough for a missile.

Laswell: Not sure if that's good news or bad news.

Price: Poke around, and see what else you can find.

Gaz: Rog. On it.

Gaz enters the hatchery building and searches for anything relevant.

Gaz: What the fuck... This place stinks to high heaven.

Price: It's a fish breeding factory.

Gaz: Well, now I know why you sent me down here alone...

Gaz continues searching through the building.

Gaz: Be advised, this is not like the other room- This place is for real with the fish...

Gaz continues searching.

Laswell: Watcher to Gaz- Find anything?

Gaz: Negatory.

Laswell: Keep searching.

Gaz eventually comes upon a stack of documents from maps to schematics of an underground complex beneath the lighthouse. He slams his fist on the table and points to the schematics on the wall ahead.

Gaz: Found something.

Laswell: What is it?

Gaz: A rendering with schematics. More to this place than we thought. There's tunnels under the lighthouse.

Price: Well, let's circle up and head for the lighthouse, then. Meet me outside.

Gaz: Copy that.

If Gaz waits too long to meet with Price...

Price: Outside the hatchery, waitin' on you, Sergeant.

Gaz meets up with Price at the gates.

Price: Lighthouse, on me.

Laswell: Guys, let's push. We're a small team- They call in outside reinforcements, this goes real bad real quick. We don't belong here in the first place. If we did, there'd be more of us...

Price: Good call, Kate. Well, let's assume cartel's alerted all guns in the AO. Expect heavy resistance ahead. With the mist and these ghillies, they'll never see us coming.

Gaz: Scout sniper... This is your jam, Captain.

Price: Like ridin' a bike...

Price and Gaz make their way to the lighthouse until they reach a ridge overlooking it.

Price: Let's set up over the ridge. We'll need to account for bullet drop.

Price and Gaz spot the lighthouse ahead.

Price: Bravo to Watcher- We have a visual on the base of the lighthouse. Setting up here.

Price and Gaz set up position on the ridge.

Price: I recommend using your sniper rifle, Sergeant. This is prime for it.

Gaz equips his sniper rifle.

Price: Scope in and scan the area.

Price and Gaz scout out the place and find armed guards throughout. As before, they work together to eliminate all the guards in the area.

Price: Variable zoom comes in handy at this long distance...; We'll need to clear the cartel off this target and move in.

(If Gaz winds up alerting the enemy, the Cartel guards will run inside the buildings.)

Price: They're retreating inside for cover. Watch the windows.

Eventually, Price and Gaz snipe all the guards outside the warehouse.

Price: You push forward to the lighthouse, and I'll cover you from here.

Gaz: Ah, my turn again, sir.

Price: Well, you were so good at it the first time...

Gaz moves down the ridge and heads for the lighthouse.

Price: Bravo to Watcher- Sergeant Garrick is advancing to the lighthouse structures.

Laswell: Copy. Getting your cardio in today, Kyle...

Price spots enemy movement ahead.

Price: Gaz- Got movement on the road down there...

An enemy vehicle drives down the road and parks.

Price: They're stopping and exiting the vehicle.

Several armed guards dismount from the vehicle and patrol. Gaz watches from his hiding spot as they approach.

Gaz: Captain- these guys aren't cartel.

Price: Laswell, you copying this...?

Laswell: Affirm. Gaz, they speaking Arabic?

Check.
Not sure.
Gaz: Check.

Laswell: AQ- Those are Hassan's men. We found the right address.

Gaz can either eliminate the patrol or sneak past them. If Gaz engages the patrol, he will shoot them dead.

Price: You're clear, Gaz. Good shots, Sergeant.

Gaz: Thanks, sir.

If Gaz leaves the patrol alone the entire time, they will eventually get back into their vehicle and drive off.

Price: They're gone. You're safe to move.

Gaz: That was close.

Laswell: Copy. My guess is they're AQ. Hassan's men. If Hassan's got soldiers here, then something's going down.

Gaz: Or did...

Laswell: There's several outbuildings around the lighthouse. Get up there and check them.

Gaz makes it to the lighthouse outbuildings.

Price: Clear those buildings, Sergeant.

Gaz clears out the garage first.

Gaz: Garage clear.

Laswell: Search it.

Gaz searches the garage until he finds a stack of Russian crates.

Gaz: Got something. Cases and crates... All Russian.

Laswell: What's in them?

Gaz: They're empty... Recently unpacked.

Laswell: Russia's aligned with Iran.

Price: They may be helping Hassan directly.

Laswell: This is getting bigger, John.

Price: Buildings across the way are still locked down. Let's clear them and find the entrance to those tunnels.

Gaz: Rog. On it.

Gaz exits the garage and reaches the next outbuilding.

Price: Seeing several options to get inside, Sergeant. Lemme know if you need assistance.

Tell me.
I'm good, sir.
Gaz: Tell me.

Price: Explosive breach, pick 'em off through the skylights, and tear gas through the vents to flush 'em out.

Gaz: Roger that. Workin' on it...
Just like before, he clears out the building of all cartel guards.

Gaz: Interior clear.

Gaz enters an office room and finds stacks of drugs and boxes throughout.

Gaz: Smugglers' paradise in here.

Laswell: What's in there?

Gaz: Enemy KIA and enough parcels of who knows what- Definitely drug related.

Price: Missiles?

Gaz: Negative. Looks like their living quarters as well.

Price: Hold there, Gaz. I'm comin' to ya. We need to find an entrance to those tunnels.

Price enters the building.

Price: Coming in, Gaz...Check fire.

Gaz: Copy that.

Price: Search for a way in to the tunnels. Could be something, behind the walls, or hidden in the floor.

Laswell: Find that tunnel entrance, boys.

(If Gaz still hasn't found the tunnel entrance...)

Price: Keep searching, tunnel entrance has to be here somewhere.

Price and Gaz search a laundry room until they find a washing machine propped up against the wall.

Gaz: May have found something here, Captain. Give us a hand, yeah...?

Price: I'll push, you pull.

Gaz: Yep.

Price and Gaz work together to move the washing machine aside, revealing a secret entrance to a passageway. Inside the passageway is a hole in the floor and a rope leading down the hole.

Price: Kate, we found a passageway.

Laswell: Good work.

Price: Look at this.

Gaz: Jackpot.

Laswell: Be advised. Multiple boats approaching my position.

Gaz: Need help?

Laswell: Could be fishermen. Stay on mission.

Price: On me.

Price grabs the rope and rappels down the hole. Gaz follows after.

Gaz: Descending...

Just as Gaz reaches the bottom of the hole, Price swiftly kills a cartel guard with his knife.

Price: Cartels love their tunnels.

Gaz: Wish I could say the same. Age before beauty, Captain.

Price and Gaz make their way down the tunnels.

Gaz: Bloody extensive.

Price: Must lead out to the water.

Price and Gaz jump down another hole and into another tunnel.

Price: Kate, I'm in the tunnels, heading toward the coastline. You okay?

Laswell: Boats are still closing, no trouble yet.

Price: I don't like this, Kate.

Laswell: Comes with the territory, John--

Price: You shouldn't be out there alone.

Laswell: I'm not alone- I'm armed and dangerous, Captain. Out.

Price and Gaz reach a cavern that's been converted into a submarine docking pen. They encounter more cartel guards and kill them.

Gaz: All clear.

Price: End o' the line... Hey- have a look at this. Submarine.

Gaz: Fuckin' hell.

Price: Cartels use them for transport.

Gaz: Thing's big enough for a missile.

Price: Barely. You couldn't cross the Atlantic in that heap. Kate, we're in a cave, just off the coast. No personnel, no missiles.

Laswell: Copy. I'm directly across... I think I've got problems here, John.

Price: Copy, stand by. Gaz- get your gun up toward the ocean.

Gaz: What is it...?

Gaz looks through his sniper scope and sees Laswell's boat under siege.

Laswell: Boats are closing in. Looks like AQ- They have weapons... Contact-! Engaging...

Price: KATE-!!

Al Qatala's boats approach Laswell's and several fighters board.

Price: FUCK, they're boarding! KATE...! KATE...!

Gaz: LASWELL-! Fuck! What the fuck-! I can't see what's happening...!

Price: They have her hemmed in- she's surrounded.

Laswell: Al Qatala's on the boat, they're taking it or me...

AQ Abductor 1: (in Arabic) Drop your weapon, drop your weapon or you will die without mercy-!

Laswell: (in Arabic) I will not surrender.

The Al-Qatala soldiers restrain Laswell as she struggles against them.

AQ Abductor 1: (in Arabic) Take her, take her!

AQ Abductor 2: (in Arabic) Let's go, brothers, take her now, now!

Al Qatala's boats leave with Laswell in their custody.

AQ Abductor 2: (in Arabic) Comply, comply, you are a prisoner in the name of Al Qatala.

Laswell: ---Get your fucking hands off of me--!!

Price: Laswell, Laswell...! She's on the AQ boat-- They're taking her...

Gaz: They got her, Captain. They took Laswell...

Price: Well, let's get off the X and talk to Shepherd. Let's go.

Price gives Gaz a hand up to the platform.

Gaz: We need to get Laswell back.

Price: Let's move.