
Across a black screen, the following words are displayed.
"WARNER BROS. INTERACTIVE ENTERTAINMENT PRESENTS"

As those words fade out, the camera fades in to the Edenian Wasteland.

More words appear on the screen.

"A NETHERREALM STUDIOS PRODUCTION"

They fade out. Vultures are flying over the rocky landscape as the title screen appears.

"MORTAL KOMBAT"

As the title fades away, a vulture pops up in front of the camera, its beak bloodied from feasting on an unseen carcass. The camera pans around the wasteland. Kung Lao's dead body is shown crushed underneath a skeletal hand presumably summoned by Shinnok (or more specifically, his clone). Kitana's bloodied hand lies next to him.

Scorpion's kunai is buried point deep in the ground, with he himself being impaled upon Sub-Zero's ice blade. Behind him, Hotaru's body is slack in a seated position, and many other kombatants lie dead, one with a sword impaled in them, another (Li Mei) upright and impaled on a naginata.

Baraka is propped up against a rock in two pieces; Kung Lao's hat has split him in half across his face and chest. In the background, one of his arms (or more specifically, the blade in it) is impaled in the back of Sub-Zero.

Johnny Cage's glasses have broken and fallen from his face, with Cage's head missing from the rest of his body. The vulture is shown again, feasting on the intestines of Sonya Blade, who has been sliced in two across her abdomen. Another vulture flies in and pushes the first off the carcass.

The first vulture flies off and the camera pans to follow its flight across towards the Armageddon pyramid. Reptile, a bloodied skeleton and an unidentified ninja lie dead before it, as well as an impaled Jax in the background, and the camera pans up the pyramid to follow more bodies.

Bo Rai Cho and Cyrax, Nightwolf and Sheeva (with one of Nightwolf's arrows in her side), Kabal (with a vulture feeding on his corpse), Sektor, Kenshi and Mileena. As the camera moves up to Quan Chi's dead body, the sounds of a struggle can be heard. These sounds continue as the camera pans up to the bodies of the zombified Liu Kang and Shang Tsung, reaching the top of the pyramid.

The fire that was once Blaze still burns across the pyramid top. The camera cuts to Raiden falling on the floor, his hat falling off his head as he does so. His red eyes struggle to focus and he tries to sit up to face his tormentor, Shao Kahn.

SHAO KAHN: Where are the Elder Gods, Raiden?

Kahn laughs as he stalks toward his long time enemy and picks him up.

SHAO KAHN: Their pathetic Mortal Kombat shackles me no longer.

He methodically pounds Raiden across the face several times and throws him across the pyramid top. In mid-flight, an amulet on Raiden's chest falls off and shatters into several pieces. Raiden crashes onto the floor a moment later. Kahn draws his hammer, which pulses with magical energy.

SHAO KAHN: They masquerade as dragons, but are mere toothless worms.

As Raiden rolls over, Kahn slams his boot into Raiden's chest.

SHAO KAHN: My venom spreads. It is the end of all things.

His hammer now glows with a flaming essence. Kahn himself glows the same essence, and it is clear he has absorbed the godlike power of Blaze.

SHAO KAHN: Armageddon.

RAIDEN: STOP!

SHAO KAHN: It is done.

Kahn picks Raiden up once more.

SHAO KAHN: Your time has passed.

He throws Raiden aside again. Raiden once more struggles to pull himself up.

SHAO KAHN: Ages wasted in foolish resistance.

Raiden spots the broken amulet.

SHAO KAHN: Now is the dawn of my rule.

Raiden scoops up most of what remains of the amulet in his hand. He begins an ancient chant as Kahn walks to his side, laughing. The amulet glows with Raiden's signature blue lightning as the chant continues.

SHAO KAHN: Yes. Pray to the worms, Raiden. As your world ends...

As Kahn raises his hammer to smash Raiden into the ground, Raiden finishes the prayer with the following words.

RAIDEN: He must win!

Raiden's eyes suddenly flash from red to blue and lightning sparkles from them. Just as Kahn's hammer smashes into his skull, a blue portal of lightning appears before the screen. Images of Raiden's past flash into existence:

Raiden fighting Taven.
Raiden speaking with the alliance of Quan Chi, Shao Kahn, Onaga and Shang Tsung made just before Armageddon.
Raiden reanimating Liu Kang's body.
Raiden fighting with the Deadly Alliance against Onaga.
Raiden fighting the Deadly Alliance.
Raiden telling Earthrealm's warriors (Jax, Kung Lao, Frost, Johnny Cage, Sub-Zero and Sonya Blade) of the Deadly Alliance.
Sub-Zero bowing before Raiden.
Jax and Sonya opening a portal to Outworld with Raiden watching.
Raiden holding Liu Kang's body.
Raiden forcing up a lightning shield against energy blasts from Shinnok.
Liu Kang in a fighting stance before a beaten Shao Kahn in front of an Outworld portal.
Tarkatan warriors and gigantic monsters laying waste to a pile-up of cars in Earthrealm (and the people in them).
Motaro impaling Johnny Cage on a spear.
Raiden and Nightwolf standing before a black portal in the middle of a desert.
Raiden watching Jax receiving his cybernetic implants.
Liu Kang punching a hole through Shao Kahn's chest.
Kano in shackles.
Baraka commanding Tarkatan forces to attack the Wu Shi Academy.
Liu Kang in a fighting stance before a beaten Shang Tsung.
Kung Lao discarding a disguise and running toward Baraka.
Reptile lunging toward Johnny Cage.
The portal then pans out into the eyes of Raiden. He gasps and clutches his head. It's apparent that this is the Raiden of the past - of the time of first Mortal Kombat tournament, to be precise. Liu Kang walks up to him.

LIU KANG: Lord Raiden! What is wrong?

RAIDEN: Strange visions...

A crackling of magic emanates from Raiden's amulet. He holds it in his hand. It has cracked in several places.

LIU KANG: Your amulet!

RAIDEN: It is nothing, Liu Kang. The tournament begins.

They both turn to witness a procession of monks walking towards them. It becomes apparent they are on Shang Tsung's magical island. Johnny Cage watches alongside Sonya Blade to the left of them. Sub-Zero (Bi-Han, the older brother) is slightly behind them with Cyrax and Sektor (both currently human) flanking him.

The camera cuts to behind the grandmasters throne. The elderly Shang-Tsung walks out, flanked by Kitana and Jade. Baraka enters as well to the left of them. Nightwolf (on Raiden's left) watches cautiously, while Quan Chi and Scorpion (to the left of Johnny Cage and Sonya) watch them impassively. The monks finish their walk and sit down before Shang Tsung.

SHANG TSUNG: Kombatants. I am Shang Tsung! In the coming days each of you will fight. Some are here of their own volition, others were brought here by chance...

As Tsung continues talking, Johnny Cage looks to his right at Sonya.

JOHNNY CAGE: Hey, beautiful. Johnny Cage.

SONYA: Good for you.

JOHNNY CAGE: What? "Massive Strike", "Citizen Cage", "Ninja Mime"? None of those ring a bell?

Sonya looks over to see another kombatant walking out into the arena.

SONYA: Kano...

JOHNNY CAGE: "Kano"? Wasn't in that one...

SHANG TSUNG: You participate in the most important Mortal Kombat in history! This tournament, the tenth after nine Outworld victories, will determine Earthrealm's fate. If you defeat all of your opponents, you will face one final challenge... me.

JOHNNY CAGE: Huh! That old geezer's the final challenge? They might as well give me the belt right now. They do have belts, right?

Someone coughs behind Cage. He turns around to see Shang Tsung standing beside him.

JOHNNY CAGE: What? How did you

SHANG TSUNG: Appearances can be deceiving.

He levitates back toward his throne.

4.2. CHAPTER 1: JOHNNY CAGE
SHANG TSUNG: Our first kombatant will be Mr. Cage!
Johnny laughs defiantly and strides forward.

JOHNNY CAGE: That's right! That's right! Who's it gonna be?

SHANG TSUNG: Reptile!

Cage looks toward a rooftop of the arena. Reptile materialises on the rooftop (having been observing while invisible) and jumps to the arena floor to the monks applause.

JOHNNY CAGE: Nice stunt! Who's your agent?

SHANG TSUNG: Begin!

JOHNNY CAGE: All right, it's showtime!

They fight. Cage gets his chance to show off his considerable martial skills against the Zaterran assassin. After a fierce exchange, Cage shows he can back up his trash talking by managing to defeat Reptile.

JOHNNY CAGE: He got Caged! That's it, ha haa! Oh yeah! I'm so pretty!

Liu Kang and Raiden watch Johnny's gloating with equal amounts of disgust. Cage then stalks up to several of the observing kombatants.

JOHNNY CAGE: And I'm takin' you down, I'm takin' you down, I'm takin' you out, I'm takin' you out, and I'm taking you out...

He's now in front of Sonya.

JOHNNY CAGE: ...for dinner!

Johnny snickers as Sonya reacts with disdain.

SHANG TSUNG: Your second challenge, Mr. Cage. Baraka!

The Tarkatan warrior roars out loud and jumps to the arena floor to the monks applause.

JOHNNY CAGE: Hmmm, ok... Nice makeup, but is it really necessary?

Baraka unsheathes his arm-blades.

JOHNNY CAGE: Woah!

BARAKA: They will taste your flesh!

They fight. Even though he's just fought an intense battle with Reptile, Cage shows he still has the stamina to take on Baraka. After another hard fought exchange, Cage manages to emerge victorious and still has the energy to keep talking.

JOHNNY CAGE: Man, I love those blades! My producer has got to meet you! We're doing "Tommy Scissorfists", and

SHANG TSUNG: Congratulations, Mr. Cage. Now, FINISH HIM!

JOHNNY CAGE: Finish him? Yeah, right!

SHANG TSUNG: Kill him!

Johnny looks to the crowd. Sub-Zero and Cyrax look on in anticipation, as do Quan Chi and Scorpion. Cage begins to realise the gravity of his situation.

JOHNNY CAGE: Woah! Woah, woah, wait a second! I'm not gonna kill anyone!

Liu Kang throws a confused look at Raiden, who takes in the scene impassively.

SHANG TSUNG: Very well.

He stands up from his chair.

SHANG TSUNG: The tournament will resume at dawn!

He turns around and departs. The monks all rise and start to do the same.

JOHNNY CAGE: What, that's it? Really?

No one answers him. Johnny turns around and rubs his hands in anticipation.

JOHNNY CAGE: Now where'd that hottie go?

As he leaves, Johnny finds Raiden and Liu Kang walking up to him.

RAIDEN: You fought well.

JOHNNY CAGE: Thanks. Nice hat.

LIU KANG: You should be more respectful of Lord Raiden. He is the protector of Earthrealm, the God of Thunder, the

JOHNNY CAGE: Look, I don't know what kind of role-playing you guys are into, but count me out.

He turns to leave but Kang steps in his path.

LIU KANG: This tournament is more than a chance for personal glory. We are fighting for the very survival of Earthrealm.

JOHNNY CAGE: What are you talking about?

RAIDEN: Your last opponent was Tarkatan. He was born with those blades.

JOHNNY CAGE: (Sarcastically) Yeah, those things are real.

Two guards pick up Baraka's unconscious form and carry him off.

RAIDEN: He represents Outworld. Had you lost, the emperor Shao Kahn would have come one step closer to physically absorbing our world into his.

JOHNNY CAGE: Outworld, yeah right, right...

RAIDEN: The Elder Gods created the Mortal Kombat tournament to give Earthrealm a chance to defend itself. But if we lose this time, Shao Kahn will conquer all.

JOHNNY CAGE: Dun Dun Dunnn!

He dramatically throws his arms up in the air.

JOHNNY CAGE: Look guys, I'm an actor. I save the world for the cameras. If this emperor is really a threat, call the military. Me, I've got a date with a blonde. Ciao!

He slaps Raiden on the arm and leaves.

LIU KANG: What do you see in him?

RAIDEN: He is a hero, Liu Kang, though he may not yet know it.

On a bridge overlooking a deep pit, Sonya Blade is trying to use her radio to talk to the Special Forces Command.

COMMAND: Triangulating your signal for evac, but...

The radio becomes briefly distorted.

COMMAND: ...there is no island.

SONYA: I'm standing on it! Just lock onto my wrist comm!

Johnny walks onto the bridge and smiles.

COMMAND: Understood. What is your current status?

SONYA: They have Jax. And if I don't fight in this crazy tournament, they'll kill him. I'm gonna try to

JOHNNY CAGE: Need help? I specialise in rescuing damsels in distress.

SONYA: You again. Listen, I've got serious problems here. I'm in no mood to be hit on by some movie star.

JOHNNY CAGE: C'mon. A girl like you shouldn't be wandering around this freak show alone.

Sonya sighs and tries to walk off. Johnny grabs her by the arm.

JOHNNY CAGE: Look, baby, I can't let you run loose without an escort.

Sonya punches him in the stomach, then across the face, knocking him down. She assumes a fighting stance.

SONYA: I don't need an escort, and I'm sure as hell not your baby!

They fight. Although reluctant to do so, Johnny Cage shows that he's not afraid of fighting a woman if he has to. After a brief scuffle, Cage manages to get the upper hand and he knocks Sonya to the ground.

JOHNNY CAGE: Ha haaa! Not bad for a... girl...

Johnny seems to regret getting caught up in the moment and extends his hand to her.

JOHNNY CAGE: Look, sorry about that.

Sonya slaps his hand away.

SONYA: I don't need your help.

JOHNNY CAGE: Fine. Have it your way. I'll just leave you to your... problems.

Cage fails to notice the burly Australian sneaking up behind him.

KANO: Good idea!

Kano grabs Cage from behind and throws him off the bridge.

KANO: Now that he's softened you up, it's my turn!

The camera begins to pan down the bridge.

SONYA: Not man enough for a fair fight?

KANO: I don't do "fair".

Off camera, Kano blasts her with his eye beam.

KANO: No need to get up, love.

The camera pans furthur down the bridge to see Johnny has grabbed one of the protruding spikes to save himself from impalement. Sonya's screams echo above him as he looks down at the victims that fell before him.

KANO: So tell me...how are things at Command?

SONYA: Bastard!

Sonya continues to scream as Kano blasts her again and again. Cage attempts to climb up the rock surface, but cannot get a good grip without slipping.

KANO: Guillible bitch. Just had to point you in the wrong direction. Couldn'ta done it without ya!

SONYA: S.F. is on the way. You won't get far.

KANO: Oh, I got a knack for survival. You, on the other hand, are gonna die here.

Cage suddenly somersaults back onto the bridge.

JOHNNY CAGE: Step away from the lady!

He stalks toward Kano, dusting himself off.

JOHNNY CAGE: Fans think my moves are all wire work and special effects. Truth is... I AM the special effects.

They fight. While Johnny has his work cut out for him fighting a brutal thug like Kano, he manages to keep the fight at a level pace and, using a few tricks up his sleeve, leaves Kano on the floor unconscious.

JOHNNY CAGE: Throw that on your... barby... Shrimp...

He walks toward Sonya.

SONYA: Thanks.

JOHNNY CAGE: No problem. Who is that guy anyway?

He offers her his hand, but remembering what happened last time, he draws it back. Sonya then extends her hand to him, allowing him to help her to her feet.

SONYA: His name's Kano. He was an informant in our Black Dragon investigation. Big-time arms dealers. Turns out he was their leader and giving us the runaround. Lot of our guys got killed because of him.

JOHNNY CAGE: So that's not a costume? You're actual military?

SONYA: Special Forces.

JOHNNY CAGE: Get out! So you know about this "threat to the world" stuff, right? Raiden called in the cavalry.

SONYA: Raiden? No idea who you're talking about.

As they turn around, they see no sign of Kano.

SONYA: Damn.

JOHNNY CAGE: He can't be far.

SONYA: He'll have to wait.

She holds out her hand.

SONYA: I appreciate your help, Cage.

Johnny shakes it.

JOHNNY CAGE: Johnny.

SONYA: But right now I've got things to take care of. My C.O. is locked up on this island somewhere. I have to find him.

She walks off. Cage looks at her with admiration.

4.3. CHAPTER 2: SONYA
Sonya has found her way into an underground location on the island. She creeps around cautiously.
SONYA: Jax! Jax, are you in here?

She has walked into what appears to be a prison or a lair. Rotting bodies stripped off their flesh hang off rusty meathooks. One of the the iron barred cells Sonya comes across contains Jackson Briggs. He looks like he's been severely beaten during his incarceration.

SONYA: Oh my God. What did they do to you?

JAX: Run, girl, run...

Behind her, Shang Tsung walks into the prison with two masked guards flanking him.

SHANG TSUNG: Miss Blade! You do not disappoint. I have been expecting you.

SONYA: Let him go! We're not part of your tournament!

SHANG TSUNG: On the contrary, you are very much a kontestant. You will face Sub-Zero, of the Lin Kuei clan of assassins.

Ice begins to materialise in the prison, taking the form of a man. The ice shatters to present Sub-Zero. He assumes a fighting stance and Sonya walks toward him.

SUB-ZERO: Now you will feel death's cold embrace.

They fight. Even against his powers of ice, Sonya manages to fend off the merciless assassin and beat him unconscious. She then addresses Shang Tsung.

SONYA: Done! We're leaving!

Raiden appears in a flash of lightning as Shang Tsung moves forward.

SONYA: Stand in my way and I'll kick your a

SHANG TSUNG: A challenge?

Raiden suddenly gasps. In his mind he flashes back to a picture of Liu Kang defeating Shang Tsung with a flying kick. He promptly gets between the two of them.

RAIDEN: No. You will not be the one to challenge Shang Tsung.

Sonya misinterprets this as Raiden trying to protect the sorcerer.

SONYA: You want some too? Fine by me!

They fight. Showing her tenacity and taking advantage of Raiden's reluctance to fight, Sonya aggressively takes it to the God of Thunder and knocks him down.

SONYA: Enough of this!

She grabs Raiden by the shirt and prepares to punch him again.

RAIDEN: Shield your eyes.

SONYA: What?

RAIDEN: Shield your eyes.

His eyes start crackling with electricity. A blinding flash envelopes the surrounding area. Sonya manages to get one arm in front of her face. Shang Tsung and the guards aren't so lucky. With them blinded, Sonya destroys the bars on Jax's cell with her wave energy blast. She supports Jax as best as she can.

SONYA: Jax, come on! We're outta here!

JAX: 'Bout time...

As Raiden picks himself up, the masked guards take off after Sonya and Jax. Shang Tsung looks over at Raiden.

SHANG TSUNG: You aided their escape.

RAIDEN: You allowed them to escape.

SHANG TSUNG: They will not get far.

Tsung walks off. The scene cuts to a forest. Sonya is struggling to keep Jax moving.

SONYA: Come on Jax! Move it! That's an order!

JAX: Oh... so you're in charge now?

She speaks into her wrist communicator.

SONYA: Special Forces Command, this is Sonya Blade! Where's that evac?

COMMAND: Blade, they are en-route... coming to you shortly...

SONYA: Affirmative! Almost home, soldier.

The two women seen at Shang Tsung's side the day previous approach them from the forest.

KITANA: By order of Shang Tsung, no one leaves this island.

SONYA: I don't have time for this. Outta my way!

They fight. Even though Sonya has the numbers stacked against her, she manages to defeat both Kitana and Jade and leave them on the floor unconscious.

SONYA: Sure don't need anymore surprises like them.

She walks over to Jax.

SONYA: How are you holding up?

JAX: I'm fine.

SONYA: Liar. After I get you to base, I'm coming back. Kano's still here somewhere.

JAX: Your obsession with him is gonna get you killed.

SONYA: I trusted him.

JAX: Yeah, we all did.

SONYA: But I was the one he used.

She looks up at the sound of a helicopter.

SONYA: I think our ride's here.

She begins waving to the approaching copter. As she does so, a gigantic fireball shoots up from nowhere and blasts it into pieces. Sonya can only watch as the chopper crashes in the distance in flames.

SONYA: No!

She turns to see a laughing Shang Tsung alongside Kano. Tsung's hand is still glowing with fire.

SONYA: Damn you!

SHANG TSUNG: You have a challenger - Kano.

Angrily, Sonya assumes her fighting stance.

KANO: Pretty Boy ain't gonna save ya this time.

They fight. With plently of anger in her this time, Sonya shows that she doesn't need saving and beats Kano to the floor.

SONYA: You're comin' with me.

As she moves in to arrest Kano, Tsung stops her by blasting a fireball into her path.

SHANG TSUNG: Kano is not your prisoner.

SONYA: At least help Jax. He needs a medic!

The sorcerer only laughs at her as he walks off, followed by Kano, Kitana and Jade.

SONYA: Bastard.

JOHNNY CAGE: There she is!

Sonya turns around to see Cage walking toward her, followed by Raiden and Liu Kang.

JOHNNY CAGE: Sonya! You all right? Hey, looks like you found 'im.

He throws a salute at Jax.

JOHNNY CAGE: S'up, Sarge?

SONYA: He's a ma

She stops as she looks at Raiden walking toward her commanding officer.

SONYA: Hey, what are you doing?

Raiden charges up lightning in his palms.

JOHNNY CAGE: It's ok. He's cool.

As the electricity nears Jax, he starts to glow with blue energy. Sonya attempts to intervene but Johnny grabs her arm.

JAX: What the?

SONYA: Jax!

JOHNNY CAGE: Seriously. He's cool.

The process takes a few moments, and after Raiden has finished, Jax has been completely healed of his injuries. He examines his arms and seems quite astounded at the difference.

JAX: That's amazing!

JOHNNY CAGE: Told ya! Turns out he's a god!

As Jax rises to his feet, Sonya is also quite astounded as Raiden approaches her.

SONYA: Thank you... Raiden.

RAIDEN: Gratitude is unnecessary. I have foreseen events, like memories of my future. They lead me to believe that you are all connected to Earthrealm's fate.

LIU KANG: What have you foreseen?

RAIDEN: In my visions, Shao Kahn becomes invincible. He destroys all life in Earthrealm. We will all die. I believe these flashes are a guide to defeating Shao Kahn. But disrupting the flow of time can have serious consequences.

JOHNNY CAGE: I'm not worried. I bet you could win this thing no problem.

RAIDEN: Unless directly challenged, I cannot participate.

JOHNNY CAGE: What should we do besides standing around looking pretty?

RAIDEN: For now, the tournament must run its course.

SONYA: All right then. We're with you, Raiden.

4.4. CHAPTER 3: SCORPION
Back at the island's arena, Shang Tsung, his bodyguards and the monks have taken their places once again. Notably, Quan Chi now stands by the Grandmaster's throne. The kombatants present at the last fight are back again, waiting for the next match. One masked guard catches the eye of Raiden. He gasps and receives another vision; this one reveals Kung Lao running at Baraka. Raiden realises the true identity of the guard at once and leaves his place.
SHANG TSUNG: Kombatants! The next match will now begin!

In a burst of hellfire, Scorpion teleports onto the arena floor. Johnny Cage gasps in awe, and even Liu Kang looks impressed.

SHANG TSUNG: Scorpion! Specter of the Netherrealm! Resurrected by the sorcerer Quan Chi! Who among you is worthy of this challenge?

SCORPION: Where is the Lin Kuei Sub-Zero? He killed my family and clan. I will have his head!

Raiden approaches the masked guard.

RAIDEN: I know it is you, Kung Lao. The Shaolin monks chose Liu Kang to represent your order in this tournament.

KUNG LAO: I am Liu Kang's equal!

RAIDEN: That remains to be seen.

KUNG LAO: Watch and see.

He promptly walks onto the arena floor, discarding his disguise as he does so.

KUNG LAO: I accept the challenge!

LIU KANG: Kung Lao?

Shang Tsung looks quite disturbed at this new turn of events. Kung Lao faces Scorpion.

KUNG LAO: Nevermind the Lin Kuei. Now you face a Shaolin.

He accentuates his point by running two fingers across his razor-sharp hat and assuming a fighting stance.

SCORPION: You will regret your impulsiveness.

They fight. Although an expert fighter in the Shaolin arts, the powers of the Netherrealm prove too much to cope with for Kung Lao. Scorpion soon beats him into an unconscious form on the ground.

SCORPION: You are not yet a warrior.

LIU KANG: Kung Lao!

Liu Kang rushes to the aid of his Shaolin brother. Raiden walks over and begins to admonish Kung Lao.

RAIDEN: Listen when your elders speak! You could not win this fight.

He assists Liu Kang in helping Kung Lao to his feet. Scorpion watches the exchange without emotion, then turns to face Shang Tsung.

SCORPION: I have defeated the challenger, Shang Tsung. I demand Sub-Zero!

Raiden gets another vision at that moment; first of Scorpion holding Sub-Zero's removed head along with his spinal cord, then the head morphs into the visage of the wraith Noob Saibot.

SHANG TSUNG: You will demand nothing! Nightwolf!

The native American walks over to Scorpion and addresses him.

NIGHTWOLF: Your aggression is misplaced.

SCORPION: What do you know of my pa

NIGHTWOLF: You are not the only one whose people have been victimised. But I have found new purpose in serving the Spirits. I do not cling to the past.

SCORPION: You no longer seek retribution? You dishonour your kind. I will honour the memory of my fallen.

They fight. Nightwolf's powers prove more of a match for Scorpion that Kung Lao did, but even he cannot withstand the fury of the vengeful ninja. Scorpion once again emerges victorious and leaves Nightwolf unconscious on the ground.

SCORPION: The spirits have forsaken you, Shaman.

SHANG TSUNG: An impressive start!

Scorpion clenches a fist at Shang Tsung that bursts into flame.

SCORPION: You waste my time, sorcerer!

Quan Chi holds up his hand.

QUAN CHI: Restraint, Scorpion.

Although not pleased about it, Scorpion acknowledges the order and his hand returns to normal.

SHANG TSUNG: You will fight Sub-Zero soon enough.

He stands up and takes his leave, with Quan Chi following. As Scorpion lowers his head and ponders recent events, Raiden attracts his attention.

RAIDEN: Scorpion, I understand your desire for revenge. But Nightwolf is right. There are other ways in which you may find peace.

SCORPION: Sub-Zero deserves death.

RAIDEN: Defeat Sub-Zero if you must, but do not kill him. I fear his death will give rise to a more treacherous foe.

SCORPION: I will have my revenge!

RAIDEN: Spare Sub-Zero's life and I will request that the Elder Gods return the Shirai Ryu to the realm of mortals.

Scorpion takes a few moments to contemplate this new turn of events. He eventually looks Raiden in the eyes and nods his consent. Raiden nods back and walks off with Liu Kang and Kung Lao, leaving the spectre alone.

Some time later, the door to Shang Tsung's throne room is opened and Scorpion walks in. Several kombatants are milling around discussing things with one another. Two of those kombatants are Cyrax and Sektor of the Lin Kuei.

CYRAX: I understand there are benefits to the Grand Master's plan, but his plan goes against Lin Kuei principles.

SEKTOR: We are Lin Kuei, Cyrax. We will obey the Grand Master's commands.

CYRAX: It means giving up our free will... our souls. It will turn us into

Sektor stops him as Scorpion approaches them.

SEKTOR: Scorpion.

CYRAX: Your inferior clan is dead. Soon you will join them.

SCORPION: My clan may walk the Earth once more.

Cyrax pushes him back in response. Shang Tsung immediately spots this.

SHANG TSUNG: A challenge! Scorpion versus Cyrax and Sektor!

CYRAX: Your obsession with Sub-Zero ends here.

They fight. Both Cyrax and Sektor are formidable warriors with plenty of weapons and technology to fight with, but Scorpion's unnatural strength and powers still give him the edge in kombat. Both members of the Lin Kuei are soon knocked unconscious.

SCORPION: I will have my revenge, but I will not kill Sub-Zero.

As Raiden nods his approval, a new voice attracts everyone's attention.

SUB-ZERO: Will not? Or cannot?

Sub-Zero walks into the room.

SCORPION: You!

The two enemies walk up to one another.

SCORPION: The Shirai Ryu are dead. You will suffer as they did.

SUB-ZERO: To hell with your clan!

SCORPION: No, to Hell with YOU!

He grabs Sub-Zero and they both disappear in a flash of hellfire. They reappear in a place filled with fire, burning bodies and malicious architecture.

SUB-ZERO: The Netherrealm.

SCORPION: This is where I was reborn. This is where you will pay!

They fight. The battle is truly an epic one, with both kombatants equally matched in strength and fighting skill. In the end, Scorpion's fury gets the better of Sub-Zero and he is beaten into submission.

SCORPION: I have avenged my family and clan.

Quan Chi teleports into the realm.

QUAN CHI: This is your retribution? Scorpion, kill him.

SCORPION: I... I will not. He has been beaten.

QUAN CHI: Have you forgotten?

Quan Chi magically creates a visage of the homeland of the Shirai Ryu.

SCORPION: What is this?

The entire village is in flames. Shirai Ryu clansmen are cut down by a hail of arrows.

SCORPION: No...

Another is decapitated by a Lin Kuei assassin. Yet more are run through by katanas from horseback riders and by arrows from archer marksmen. Among the horseriders is Sub-Zero.

QUAN CHI: Your clan. Your family.

Another vision is magically created by the sorcerer. It shows Scorpion's wife and infant son huddled in a corner of their home. The door opens to reveal Sub-Zero, katana in hand. He unsheathes it, and unmoved by the wife's tears, brings the blade down. All that is seen is a blood splattering the walls, along with the petals of a rose worn in his wife's hair. The implications are all too obvious.

SCORPION: NO!

The vision fades. Sub-Zero, badly wounded as he is, is on his feet and holding a hand up in mercy.

SUB-ZERO: That is not me!

Scorpion rips his mask off his head. All that is present is a skull enwrapped in flames. The scene immediately cuts to black.

Back in the throne room of Shang Tsung, Scorpion reappears. Shang Tsung smiles in anticipation. Wordlessly, Scorpion holds up a scorched skull with the spinal cord attached.

JOHNNY CAGE: Ouch.

His head hung in either sorrow or despair, Scorpion lets the skull shatter on the ground. With a loud scream, he bursts into flame and disappears. As the kombatants leave, Raiden looks over the skull alongside Cyrax.

RAIDEN: Despite my efforts, my vision has come to pass. An unfortunate end. He once defended Earthrealm from the Netherrealm armies of Shinnok and Quan Chi.

CYRAX: Scorpion will pay for this!

RAIDEN: Sub-Zero's fate is his own doing.

CYRAX: His own doing?!

RAIDEN: The Lin Kuei have a history of making ruinous choices.

Cyrax glares at Raiden and begins to storm off, but Raiden's next words stop him short.

RAIDEN: Such as the Cyber Initiative.

Cyrax turns back around to face him.

CYRAX: I am among those speaking out against the Grand Master's plan. Surgically transform the Lin Kuei into glorified robots? It kills our intuition, our instincts.

RAIDEN: Did you speak out against the Lin Kuei's participation in this tournament?

CYRAX: We were invited by Shang Tsung.

RAIDEN: He pays you to kill Earthrealm warriors. Betraying your own realm? I expect better, even from an assassin.

CYRAX: My loyalty is to the Grand Master.

He tries to walk off again, but Raiden stops him once more.

RAIDEN: Victory for Shang Tsung means the end of Earthrealm. And the Lin Kuei.

Cyrax pauses for a moment, but still walks off. Baraka, who has watched the whole exchange, snarls ominously and also leaves.

4.5. CHAPTER 4: CYRAX
The scene changes to The Pit. Cyrax is walking along it when a growl attracts his attention. He turns around to see Baraka alonside with a tall woman with four arms.
CYRAX: What are you doing? I'm not here to fight you. I'm assigned to kill Johnny Cage.

SHEEVA: Shang Tsung no longer has need of you.

She holds two of her arms up to stop Baraka from intervening.

CYRAX: What do you mean?

SHEEVA: He is terminating your agreement. And you!

They fight. Although unprepared to take on a member of the Shokan race, Cyrax and his weapons prove to be up to the challenge. After a heated fight, he manages to defeat Sheeva.

CYRAX: I need to have a talk with your master.

Baraka roars and charges forward, blades unsheathed.

BARAKA: This fight is not over.

CYRAX: You mean to finish me? You couldn't even stop the actor!

They fight. Baraka's fury, as ferocious as his blades, is still not enough to defeat Cyrax's tricks and skill. The Tarkatan nomad is soon lying on the floor next to Sheeva.

CYRAX: Now this fight is over. Shang Tsung has turned on me. I need to find out why.

Back in the arena, Shang Tsung is talking with Sektor. Cyrax looks over to Raiden, who greets him with a nod. Cyrax then walks over to Sektor and Tsung.

CYRAX: Sektor, we need to talk. Our host tried to have me killed.

SHANG TSUNG: You were speaking with the Thunder God. Your indescretion has jepordised my plan.

SEKTOR: Cyrax is Lin Kuei. He will complete his task.

SHANG TSUNG: We shall see. The next match will be Cyrax versus Johnny Cage.

JOHNNY CAGE: What, me? All right then.

Johnny steps up to the arena floor.

JOHNNY CAGE: Not everyone gets to rumble with a celebrity. Ready for your beatdown, Sunshine? Here it comes!

They fight. The battle is an intense display of martial arts and dirty tricks, but in the end Cyrax manages to emerge victorious.

CYRAX: That should shut you up.

Cyrax stalks over to Cage and lifts him up by the neck, preparing to land a final blow.

SHANG TSUNG: Finish him!

Cyrax looks over to Tsung, then to Raiden, who shakes his head. He makes his decision.

CYRAX: I won't kill him!

He lets Cage down and walks off. Shang Tsung glowers in fury, but Raiden nods his approval. Sektor watches his comrade leave with disdain on his face. The scene cuts to the two of them talking in the jungle.

SEKTOR: You were commanded to kill Johnny Cage. You disobeyed.

CYRAX: I eliminated him from the tournament. He didn't need to die.

SEKTOR: You have broken your oath.

CYRAX: I used my judgment!

SEKTOR: The Cyber Initiative will eliminate insubordination.

CYRAX: We're not machines, Sektor. I chose to serve the Lin Kuei. But I will not surrender my free will!

They fight. The fight between the two technologically advanced assassins is brutal and deadly, but in the end it is Cyrax who defeats Sektor.

CYRAX: Tell the Grand Master I am finished.

SEKTOR: No one leaves the Lin Kuei

Cyrax responds by kicking Sektor in the face, knocking him unconscious. He then walks off.

4.6. CHAPTER 5: LIU KANG
Back in Shang Tsung's throne room, several masked guards are escorting a new warrior, covered in a mask of cloth and red clothing.
SHANG TSUNG: Kombatants! I present this latest creation of Shao Kahn. He is many warriors, their souls fused into one being. Behold... Ermac!

Ermac assumes a fighting kata. He glows with green energy, light crackling and the air rippling around him. Johnny Cage is once again impressed, Kano snickers under his breath.

RAIDEN: Be wary, Liu Kang. He is unlike anything you have fought before.

Liu Kang steps up to face Ermac.

SHANG TSUNG: Liu Kang! You are the sole Earthrealm warrior to progress to this final stage of the tournament!

LIU KANG: I am ready.

ERMAC: We are many. You are one. We will destroy you.

They fight. Ermac's telekenetic powers and control over magic would be an even match for several kombatants, but Liu Kang is no oridinary warrior. After an intense battle, his fighting skill overcomes the mystical warrior.

LIU KANG: Earthrealm will not fall into your master's hands.

With the fight over, the kombatants take their leave. Kitana walks over to Shang Tsung, who is seething with rage.

KITANA: He is a greater threat than anticipated. I will insure he does not reach the final challenge.

Shang Tsung nods his approval and Kitana departs after Kang. Later in the forest, Liu Kang is practicing a kata with Raiden watching.

RAIDEN: Remember Bo' Rai Cho's teachings. For my vision to be realised, you must not let emotion overpower you.

LIU KANG: Your visions. What causes them?

RAIDEN: My future self sent them to me. Perhaps to ensure some outcome.

LIU KANG: Or to prevent one.

Raiden gasps again. Another vision appears in his mind, this time of future Raiden.

FUTURE RAIDEN: He must win!

The vision disappears.

RAIDEN: "He must win". Those are my last words before I die. I believe it is you who must win.

He takes off his amulet.

RAIDEN: This amulet was forged by the Elder Gods. It cracked here in the present after my first vision. If we choose wisely, the future will be secured and the cracks healed.

LIU KANG: I trust you will make the right decisions.

RAIDEN: We must trust in the Elder Gods, Liu Kang.

Raiden teleports away in a flash of lightning. Liu Kang prepares to resume his kata, only to find Kitana walking toward him. She attacks immediately, but he blocks all of her attacks and kicks her away. She tries again, fails to land a good hit and he kicks her away again. Getting angry, Kitana tries another attack, but Liu Kang grabs both her arms before she can connect. He seems rather intrigued by her efforts.

LIU KANG: You're good! Show me more.

She pushes him back.

KITANA: Do not underestimate me, Shaolin.

They fight. Even with ten thousand years of experience behind her, Kitana is pretty much outclassed by the Shaolin warrior. She is soon down on the floor.

LIU KANG: I am impressed.

KITANA: Do it.

LIU KANG: Do what?

KITANA: Kill me.

Kitana is now sitting up. Liu Kang kneels next to her.

LIU KANG: Why would I do that?

KITANA: I came to kill you. I have failed my father. My emperor.

LIU KANG: Shao Kahn is your father?!

KITANA: I have disgraced him. You must kill me.

LIU KANG: I will not.

She looks up at him in confusion.

LIU KANG: This encounter never took place. You have disgraced no one.

He stands up and begins to walk away, but turns around one last time.

LIU KANG: I hope we meet again. Under... different circumstances.

He walks off, leaving Kitana to ponder what took place.

The scene cuts to the courtyard exterior. It is now night, and Liu Kang walks in, flanked by Kung Lao and Raiden. Earthrealm's remaining warriors, along with Shang Tsung and Kitana, are all waiting in anticipation.

SHANG TSUNG: Kombatants! Only one Earthrealm warrior remains.

Raiden nods and Kung Lao places his hand on Kang's shoulder. They nod to one another.

SHANG TSUNG: The Shaolin Liu Kang. Is he ready to bear such a heavy burden? Earthrealm's fate is in his hands. Your opponent will be... Scorpion!

The hellspawn ninja appears in a flash of fire. Liu Kang assumes a fighting stance.

LIU KANG: I do not fear you, demon.

SHANG TSUNG: Fighting with Scorpion... the sorcerer Quan Chi!

Quan Chi teleports through a portal, laughing as he does so.

SCORPION: You have already lost.

They fight. The odds are truly stacked against Liu Kang, but he rises to the occasion and surpasses both Netherrealm denizens with his strength, speed and fighting prowess. After a intense battle of endurance, Kang prevails.

LIU KANG: As I said, I do not fear you. I pity you.

Shang Tsung's eyes narrow with displeasure. Liu Kang walks up to Raiden.

RAIDEN: You have done well. But the tournament is not yet over.

LIU KANG: Goro.

JOHNNY CAGE: (To Sonya) What's a "Goro"?

She shrugs in answer.

SHANG TSUNG: Liu Kang... it has been years since an Earthrealm warrior has progressed this far. But the reigning champion is far beyond your ability. To the Lair with you!

Tsung opens a portal under Kang's feet. He falls right through it and lands hard on the floor of the Lair. It is in fact the prison Sonya fought through, and notably there is a large throne that has no one in it. Kang rises to his feet and looks around, spotting no one until a voice sounds out behind him.

GORO: I did not expect to fight in this tournament.

Kang wheels around. He comes face to face with an eight foot tall, four armed humanoid.

GORO: But eventually even the Shaolin produce a warrior worthy of a Shokan.

He stalks forward to face Liu Kang.

LIU KANG: I know who you are! I am ready for you!

GORO: I will give you a warriors death.

They fight. The battle is the most intense of Liu Kang's life. Goro's strength is unparalled and his endurance legendary. It takes all of Kang's skill, speed and stamina to keep in the fight, but amazingly he manages to take it to the Mortal Kombat champion. After what seems like an age, Goro finally goes down to the Shaolin warrior.

LIU KANG: It seems the Shaolin trained a warrior greater than a Shokan.

Sensing Goro is out cold, Liu Kang clasps his hands in a prayer of thanks. A portal opens up behind him. He looks to it with grim determination.

In Shang Tsung's throne room, Raiden and the others await the arrival of the victor. Shang Tsung sneers unhappily when he sees it is Liu Kang. He steps from his throne to the floor as Raiden takes in a deep breath in anticipation.

LIU KANG: Shang Tsung! Only one fight remains! Face me... in Mortal Kombat!

SHANG TSUNG: So be it.

They fight. The evil sorcerer brings all of his dark magic to bear, from his fireballs to the ability to morph into any fighter he chooses. But Liu Kang fights past all of it, delivering a vicious beatdown to the treacherous servant of Shao Kahn. Finally, Kang knocks Tsung to the floor, leaving him beaten.

LIU KANG: Say it.

SHANG TSUNG: I concede.

The Earthrealm warriors all cheer in unison.

KUNG LAO: Well done, my friend.

RAIDEN: He has saved Earthrealm.

A large beam of light, eminating from a portal, descends into the throne room. The Earthrealm warriors all surround Liu Kang, offering him congratulations.

SONYA: That was awesome, Liu Kang!

NIGHTWOLF: Congratulations.

JAX: Way to go, kid!

JOHNNY CAGE: MVP, baby!

Shang Tsung and his minions all take their leave through a portal back to Outworld. The last to depart is Kitana, who casts a longing look at Liu Kang. He smiles at her as she exits through the portal. Kang then turns to face Raiden, who bows his head in congratulations. Liu Kang does the same. As Kung Lao puts a hand on his shoulder and Kang nods back, Raiden takes another look at his amulet expectantly... only to find more cracks appear among it. He ponders the meaning of this with a look of worry.

Back in Outworld, Shang Tsung is on his knees before Shao Kahn. Baraka, Reptile and Kitana stand over the sorcerer expectantly.

SHAO KAHN: You failed me! Five hundred years I have waited! Now I must wait five hundred more!

SHANG TSUNG: My lord! All is not lost!

Kahn turns around and begins speaking to himself.

SHAO KAHN: Curse the Elder Gods and their tournament!

SHANG TSUNG: My lord!

SHAO KAHN: I should have taken Earthrealm by force! But I am bound by their rules.

He sits on his throne.

SHAO KAHN: Rules that cannot be broken.

SHANG TSUNG: My lord

SHAO KAHN: Kill him!

Baraka and Reptile restrain Tsung as Kitana prepares her bladed fans.

SHANG TSUNG: But what if the rules were changed?

Kahn holds up his hand.

SHAO KAHN: Kitana!

She pauses.

SHAO KAHN: Continue...

At the Wu Shi Academy in Earthrealm, Liu Kang walks through a congregation of monks and his new friends from the tournament (minus Nightwolf, who's presumably returned to his homeland) towards Raiden. He clasps his hands in respect and bows his head. Raiden then presents him with a golden medal with a dragon at it's forefront, signifying Kang's new status as Champion of Mortal Kombat. He hangs the medal around Kang's neck as the crowd applauds.

4.7. CHAPTER 6: JAX
Time passes to night. Still at the Wu Shi Academy, Jax is smoking a cigar while contemplating recent events with Raiden.
RAIDEN: I do not understand why my amulet is furthur damaged. "He must win". If not Liu Kang, then who?

JAX: Ya got me. Not sure anybody coulda done what he did. Made Shang Tsung look like a chump.

While they're talking, a much younger looking Shang Tsung walks up to them seemingly unnoticed.

RAIDEN: (Not looking at Tsung) Here to congratulate us on our victory, sorcerer?

Jax turns round and throws away his cigar.

JAX: What? Shang Tsung?!

RAIDEN: You have been revitalised, I see. I didn't realise your master was in the habit of rewarding failure.

SHANG TSUNG: The emperor has an offer, Raiden. A new tournament.

RAIDEN: Heh. I see no reason to participate in any plan of yours.

SHANG TSUNG: The emperor proposes a single tournament, to replace the current system of ten. It will be held in Outworld. If Earthrealm does not win, Outworld will absorb it. But if Earthrealm wins, Shao Kahn will abandon his claim to it forever.

RAIDEN: Give your emperor my regards.

Tsung smiles and generates a large portal across the courtyard. Out of it emerge hundreds of Tarkatan warriors. Furiously, Raiden begins fighting with Tsung while Jax jumps into the rampaging army. He clotheslines one Tarkatan down, headbutts another, punches and knees yet another, throws him down and finishes him with a head stomp. A fourth Tarkatan sucker punches him, a fifth hits him and the fourth then kicks him in the face, sending him sprawling. As he lies on the ground, the Tarkatan brings his boot down hard on his face, knocking him unconscious.

Jax starts hearing Raiden's voice as he comes to, and spots Johnny Cage kneeling over him. The Academy has been devastated by the Tarkatans, but Liu Kang and Kung Lao as well as Cage are uninjured.

RAIDEN: He gained a momentary advantage during our kombat and escaped. I now realise what we must do.

JAX: Uggh... Anybody get the number o' that? Wait. Where's Sonya?

RAIDEN: Shang Tsung has taken her.

JAX: We've gotta find her!

KUNG LAO: We must follow them!

RAIDEN: Shang Tsung has made it clear that Earthrealm will be under constant threat unless I agree to a new tournament.

Raiden then receives another vision; one of Liu Kang punching a hole through Shao Kahn's chest.

JAX: Another vision?

RAIDEN: Yes. I saw Liu Kang win the proposed tournament. I believe we must attend. But my earlier vision, of your victory over Shang Tsung, was not the solution I sought. Therefore this premonition must show an event I need to change. Perhaps "He must win" refers to another.

Liu Kang looks a bit downcast at this.

RAIDEN: Hear me, Elder Gods! I accept the terms proposed by Shao Kahn!

A light from the heavens briefly absorbs Raiden, which is presumably their acknowledgement of this.

RAIDEN: We go to Outworld.

In Outworld, Goro brings what appears to be an amulet with a ying-yang symbol in the center to Shao Kahn. Kahn studies it, then returns it to the Shokan. Raiden enters the scene with Jax and Johnny Cage flanking him.

JAX: I assume that's the Big Man himself.

JOHNNY CAGE: The wrestler guy with the cow skull on his head? And why aren't the Kung Fu Twins here helping us?

RAIDEN: I sent Liu Kang and Kung Lao to free their Shaolin masters. I expected Sonya Blade to be here with Shang Tsung.

JAX: She'd better not have a scratch on her.

Jax stalks toward the throne.

RAIDEN: Wait! This is a tournament!

SHANG TSUNG: Ah! the Earthrealm delegation has arrived. And we have a volunteer for First Kombat!

JAX: What?

SHAO KAHN: The tournament will begin!

The Tarkatan crowd in attendance roars in approval.

SHANG TSUNG: Jackson Briggs! You will face... Baraka!

The Tarkatans cheer louder as Baraka unsheathes his blades.

JAX: Damn, you ugly.

BARAKA: My blades will find your heart!

They fight. The match is a brutal, bloody affair, but Jax's strength and power sees him eventually triumph against the Outworld nomad.

JAX: You shouldn't be runnin' with those.

While Baraka tries to pick himself up, Jax approaches Shang Tsung.

JAX: Where's Sonya?

SHANG TSUNG: Tell me, Major Briggs; Do you and she do anything other than rescue one another?

Jax growls as the Tarkatans behind him laugh.

SHANG TSUNG: Your next opponent will be

Reptile appears behind Tsung and starts whispering in his ear.

SHANG TSUNG: What is it?

Reptile continues whispering.

SHANG TSUNG: Excellent. It seems I have a pressing matter to attend to. With the emperor's permission, we will reconvene later.

Shao Kahn approves with a wave of his hand. As he rises from his throne, Jade and Kitana look knowingly at one another and walk off.

JAX: What was that all about? I think we should follow 'im.

Raiden receives another vision; this one of Sonya in shackles.

JAX: You ok?

RAIDEN: Sonya Blade... she is to be executed. My powers are compromised here in Outworld, but I will be able to transport us near enough to her.

They all depart the throne room. The scene cuts away to Shao Kahn's armoury. Apparently Raiden was unable to teleport them where he wanted to go.

JOHNNY CAGE: Maybe you could try for even nearer next time? Where are we?

RAIDEN: I will inform you the instant I know.

Jax tries fiddling with his wrist-comm.

JAX: Wish this damn tracking device worked in here.

JOHNNY CAGE: This is just like my movie "Time Smashers". We were goin' around in ti

JAX: Give it a rest, will ya? Makin' my ears hurt.

JOHNNY CAGE: So what's the deal with you and Sonya, anyway? She's smokin' hot!

JAX: It's not like that. I'm her C.O.

JOHNNY CAGE: Honey like that, under my command? Oh I'd be so

JAX: You'll wanna stop talking now.

JOHNNY CAGE: ...But if it's not like that, then you won't mind if I

JAX: That's it! Time somebody shut you the hell up!

They fight. Jax shows next to no restraint while beating the crap out of Johnny. After a while he has the movie star beaten and on the floor.

JAX: How you like that, Mr. A-List?

RAIDEN: Enough! Jackson Briggs, you will restrain yourself.

JAX: Yeah well, I

Raiden stops him with a raise of his hand.

RAIDEN: Someone approaches.

JAX: Good. Maybe somebody else needs their ass whooped.

He walks up to the newcomer, Jade.

JAX: You lookin' for somethin'?

JADE: The Armoury is restricted. You will leave now.

JAX: Gonna have to ask nicer than that.

They fight. Jax shows that he's an equal-opportunist when it comes to fighting and doesn't hold back on the Edenian woman. Eventually Jade is put down for the count as well.

JAX: Wrong place, wrong time, lady.

Johnny approaches Jax, rubbing the back of his bruised head.

JOHNNY CAGE: Feel better?

JAX: Uh, listen, Cage, I

JOHNNY CAGE: Don't worry about it. Guess we know where we are now, thanks to her.

RAIDEN: Yes. And where we must go.

JAX: Let's do it.

They take off, leaving Johnny alone.

JOHNNY CAGE: Uh, um

JAX: C'mon, Cage.

The scene then cuts to several octagon dice with unknown symbols rolling on the floor. Several guards of an unidentified Outworld species are playing a game in the Dead Pool area. Sonya is tied up nearby and being guarded by Sheeva.

SONYA: What is it with you Shokan and underground cesspools?

SHEEVA: If you had not dishonoured yourself by attempting escape, we would not be here in this sewer.

Jax, Raiden and Cage show up at the other end of the pool.

JOHNNY CAGE: Sonya!

Everyone turns around and notices them.

SHEEVA: Guards! Stop them!

JAX: So much for the surprise attack...

The door behind them slams shut. Jax charges forward, ducks some swipes from a guard with a two edged mace, grabs the weapon and clobbers him with it. The guard falls into the pool and is dissolved into nothing but blood within seconds. Jax throws down the mace and leaps over the remaining guards. Cage and Raiden charge from behind and engage them while Jax faces down Sheeva.

SHEEVA: She is the emperor's property, human.

JAX: She's nobody's property.

They fight. Like all Shokan, Sheeva is powerful and possesses magical abilities, but Jax is not about to let that stop him. Through sheer brute force he manages to overpower Sheeva and leave her unconscious.

JAX: I guess extra arms don't make a difference.

He walks over to Sonya.

SONYA: You sure have a way with women.

JAX: You know me. I'm a class act.

He picks her off the hook she's on and cuts her restraints with a knife.

SONYA: Thanks. What took you so long?

Cage and Raiden walk up to them.

JOHNNY CAGE: He was busy hitting me in the face.

Jax and Sonya exchange smiles at this. Something then perks up on her wrist communicator.

SONYA: That's weird. I've got two sets of readings, heavy tech signals, both of 'em.

RAIDEN: Technology... Then they cannot be of Outworld. We need to confront the source of each signal. We might discover the one whose victory I must insure.

JOHNNY CAGE: Wait. What about us? What are we? Chopped liver?

Raiden stares at Cage for a moment.

JOHNNY CAGE: What?

RAIDEN: Perhaps you are right, Johnny Cage. You will stay close to me.

JOHNNY CAGE: Great, I

RAIDEN: Close as a shadow, and twice as silent.

JAX: Sonya, you're with me. Keepin' my eye on you. Raiden, looks like you'll wanna teleport yourself about thirty klicks that way.

4.8. CHAPTER 7: SMOKE
The scene fades from Sonya's wrist-comm into a barren wasteland. Two ninjas, one in grey, the other in blue, stand among many slain warriors.
SMOKE: We should stay together, Tundra. Assuming your brother's identity will certainly draw attention. Not all of it welcome.

SUB-ZERO: You are right, Smoke. But assuming Bi-Han's identity is the best way to honour him.

SMOKE: Let us proceed then, Sub-Zero.

SUB-ZERO: We should separate. Our fellow Lin Kuei will not be far behind once our absence is discovered.

SMOKE: If only they had been more forthcoming with the details of your brother's demise. We will find Shang Tsung. He will tell us all he knows.

SUB-ZERO: If he killed Bi-Han, he will die.

He turns face to his friend.

SUB-ZERO: Be stealthful as the night...

They both place a hand over their hearts.

SMOKE: ...and deadly as the dawn.

Sub-Zero walks off. As Smoke watches him leave, he turns around at the sound of a new voice.

KITANA: The emperor was wise to send me here. The Lin Kuei do walk uninvited in his realm.

SMOKE: Wise though your emperor might be, he was foolish to send his housemaid to interfere with Lin Kuei business.

KITANA: I am Kitana, Princess of Outworld! And I deal harshly with sharp-tongued intruders!

They fight. Unprepared for Smoke's control over his namesake, Kitana finds herself at a disadvantage and is overwhelmed by his attacks. The melee ends with her unconscious.

SMOKE: Where there is Smoke, there is fire.

He checks over Kitana, who is out cold.

SMOKE: Sleep well, princess.

Smoke walks off into the Living Forest, where he spots Kano and Shang Tsung testing out a pair of RPG launchers.

KANO: With a whole army totin' these, no one in Outworld or Earthrealm could stand up to you.

He shoots off an RPG into the distance while Tsung examines another launcher.

SHANG TSUNG: Well done. You may tell your fellow Black Dragon that I am very interested in your merchandise.

As Kano shoots off another RPG, Smoke walks into the clearing.

SMOKE: Shang Tsung!

Both Tsung and Kano look rather bothered at the intrusion.

KANO: I'll take care of him. No charge.

He puts down the rocket launcher and walks toward Smoke.

KANO: One dead Lin Kuei in a tick.

They fight. As brutal a fighter as Kano is, Smoke manages to take advantage of his lack of discipline to take the fight to him. He soon leaves the leader of the Black Dragon down for the count.

SMOKE: Stay down. I would have words with your associate.

Shang Tsung now walks into Smoke's path.

SMOKE: Tell me what you know of Sub-Zero's death.

Reptile suddenly appears next to Tsung and snarls, ready for combat. Tsung stops him from advancing and then morphs into Bi-Han.

SMOKE: What?

When Tsung speaks, his voice is of the elder Sub-Zero.

SHANG TSUNG: Despite his failure at my tournament, I'll wager he was more powerful than you, Lin Kuei.

SMOKE: Assuming his form will not give you his skill, shapeshifter.

SHANG TSUNG: Let us see if smoke can freeze.

They fight. Tasked with facing both Reptile and Sub-Zero at once, Smoke ends up in one of the most difficult fights of his life. Nonetheless, he uses all of his skill and tricks and manages to defeat both kombatants. The fight over, Shang Tsung morphs back into his regular form.

SMOKE: Now answer me! What do you know of Sub-Zero?

Smoke gets punched in the face by an invisible attacker.

SMOKE: What?

SEKTOR: Smoke!

As Smoke looks around, he gets hit in the stomach. He's struck twice more and staggers back. Smiling at the distraction, Shang Tsung conjures up his magic and teleports himself, Reptile and the cache of weapons away (Kano has also slipped away in the melee). Meanwhile, Sektor disables his camouflage and stands in front of Smoke - but not as a human. He is now completely encased in a metal exoskeleton - in other words, he's a cyborg.

SEKTOR: You have disobeyed the directive to remain at the Lin Kuei temple.

SMOKE: Sektor?!

SEKTOR: You will return with us to begin your transformation.

SMOKE: You actually did it... You're a cyborg!

SEKTOR: We are the Lin Kuei. More stealthful than the night... more deadly than the dawn!

They fight. The battle is intense and fierce, as Sektor has a clear advantage with his technology and upgrades, forcing Smoke to use every trick at his disposal to keep in the fight. Through sheer determination, Smoke manages to defeat the machine.

SMOKE: I will never submit!

As he turns to leave the area, several more cyborgs teleport into the fray and surround Smoke. They restrain him using some sort of pulse charge emitting from their arms. Just then, Raiden teleports into the area with Johnny Cage.

RAIDEN: There is great energy nearby.

JOHNNY CAGE: Um... Rai-dude...

He points over to where Smoke and the cyborgs are. Raiden receives another vision; this time of Smoke turning into a cyborg.

RAIDEN: They must not take him.

He charges up a lightning strike and fires it at the cyborgs. The lightning shocks all of the cyborgs at once, stopping them from restraining Smoke. Sektor gets back to his feet and, noting the disadvantage he's now at, activates his stealth camouflage and disappears. The remaining cyborgs, all shorted out by the electricity, collapse on the ground, leaving only Smoke standing. As he sees Johnny Cage and Raiden approach him, Smoke crosses himself and kneels in front of Raiden.

SMOKE: Thank you, Lord Raiden. I am called Smoke.

He stands up.

SMOKE: Why are you here in Outworld?

RAIDEN: To participate in a tournament to save Earthrealm. Join us, Smoke.

SMOKE: Forgive me, but if Sektor was searching for me, he is hunting Sub-Zero as well.

JOHNNY CAGE: Sub-Zero? Call me crazy with a K... but didn't we see him die?

SMOKE: The Grand Master intends to turn every Lin Kuei into a cyborg. My friend is in danger.

RAIDEN: The tournament. I have a feeling your friend will be there.

SMOKE: Then let us go. Sub-Zero's soul depends on it.

4.9. CHAPTER 8: SUB-ZERO
The scene cuts away to the Soul Chamber. Sub-Zero is busy practicing his freezing powers - on an unseen victim (although, at least on the PS3 edition of this game, the victim is Kratos).
SUB-ZERO: A pity you could not have cooperated.

As he finishes, a cyborg in yellow deactivates his stealth camoflauge and approaches him.

CYRAX: You are ordered to return to the Lin Kuei temple for assimilation.

SUB-ZERO: Cyrax!

CYRAX: I am Lin Kuei Unit L-K-4-D-4. You will come with me.

SUB-ZERO: I am sorry for what they did to you, but I will not comply.

They fight. Although unprepared for an attack from a cyborg, Sub-Zero's control over ice and his fighting skill allow him to take it to Cyrax. After a brutal fight, Sub-Zero emerges victorious.

SUB-ZERO: I will face the Lin Kuei when my task is done, not before.

Defeated, Cyrax teleports away, just as Jax and Sonya enter the chamber.

SONYA: The readings were getting stronger and now they're gone. I

They both pause as they spot the ninja.

SONYA: Sub-Zero?! But... you're dead!

SUB-ZERO: I am not the Sub-Zero you speak of. He was my brother.

SONYA: Your... brother?

SUB-ZERO: I'm only here to learn Sub-Zero's fate.

Sonya and Jax look at each other for a moment, and then Jax nods his approval.

SONYA: He was killed by someone named Scorpion.

SUB-ZERO: Where would I find him?

SONYA: Try the Coliseum. That's where

Before she can continue, a strong vibration eminates from the Soul Chamber itself. A wave of souls float out and around the area.

ERMAC: You have disturbed our regeneration process.

The red garbed ninja appears in front of them.

JAX: Ermac!

He strides over to Ermac and grabs him by the throat.

JAX: Gotcha!

He tries to throw a punch, but Ermac stops it by raising his glowing telekenetic hand. He then uses the other glowing hand to telekenetically remove Jax's choke-hold. Jax is unable to stop his arms from being moved out to his side. Jax's arms then start vibrating with green energy and he begins screaming in terror. Ermac then brutally explodes Jax's arms into bloody pieces via his telekenesis and shoves him to the ground.

SONYA: Jax!

Acting quickly, Sonya cauterizes the bloody stumps that are Jax's arms with her wave energy blasts.

SONYA: Stay with me, Jax!

With Jax writhing on the ground and Sonya tending over him, Ermac faces down Sub-Zero.

ERMAC: We will break you as well.

SUB-ZERO: Not if I break you first.

They fight. Ermac's telekenesis finds an equal match in Sub-Zero's freezing process, resulting in a brutal display of magic and sorcery. But in the end, Sub-Zero prevails against Shao Kahn's enforcer.

SUB-ZERO: I remain whole, for now.

By now, Jax has fallen unconscious from the blood loss and pain.

SONYA: Sonya Blade to Command. Sonya Blade to Command. Do you read? Sonya Blade to Command. Do you read?

SUB-ZERO: You have stopped the bleeding.

SONYA: Yeah, but he needs a medic as soon as possible.

SUB-ZERO: I must go to the Coliseum.

SONYA: But I need your help to get him t

SUB-ZERO: There is a portal to the south. You can use it to transport yourselves back to Earthrealm.

He walks off, leaving Sonya by herself.

SONYA: Motherf... That portal better be close...

She picks up Jax's motionless form and carries him off.

The scene cuts to the Coliseum. Kitana is fighting a Shaolin monk, with Shao Kahn and all of his subordinates watching. Sub-Zero arrives just in time to see Kitana knock the monk to the ground. She readies her bladed fan for the killing blow, but hesistates.

MONK: I have failed. I deserve death.

Her earlier words to Liu Kang echo in her mind.

KITANA: I have failed my father. You must kill me.

Back in real time, Shao Kahn calls out to his daughter.

SHAO KAHN: Kill him!

She looks over to her father. He growls impatiently and blasts the monk with a burst of green magic.

SHAO KAHN: Kitana! You will join me.

She takes her place at Kahn's side as a Tarkatan carries away the monk's charred body. Sub-Zero walks up to the throne.

SUB-ZERO: Shao Kahn! I challenge Scorpion, the murderer of my brother! You will bring him before me!

SHANG TSUNG: No one makes demands of the emperor! Reptile!

The Zaterran assassin faces Sub-Zero and assumes a fighting stance. He growls expectantly.

They fight. Even with his reptillian speed and special abilities, Reptile is no match for the skill and powers of Sub-Zero. The Lin Kuei soon has the Outworld servant defeated on the floor.

SUB-ZERO: I would kill you, but that is not my purpose here.

Reptile rolls away as Sub-Zero turns to face Shao Kahn again.

SUB-ZERO: Your followers hold you in high esteem, warlord. They fight and die for your amusement. My brother participated in this folly. I do so only to face his killer!

SHAO KAHN: And you shall.

Quan Chi clenches a fist that glows with green energy. A moment later, Scorpion appears in a flash of hellfire.

SCORPION: What is this? You are not Sub-Zero.

SUB-ZERO: I am his family and clan. I fight for his honour.

SCORPION: He had no honour! And you will die as he did!

They fight. The battle is even more visceral and bloody than when the elder Sub-Zero fought Scorpion. Unprepared for the increased power of the younger's ice attacks, the hellspawn specter finds himself at the disadvantage and Sub-Zero mercilessly presses the attack. After a hard fought battle, Sub-Zero finally knocks Scorpion to the floor.

SUB-ZERO: For my brother!

As Sub-Zero prepares to finish Scorpion, several Lin Kuei cyborgs teleport into the Coliseum and surround him.

SUB-ZERO: No! You

The cyborgs restrain him with their pulse charges. Scorpion takes the opportunity to teleport away. Cyrax and Sektor teleport in and approach Shao Kahn's throne.

SHANG TSUNG: Who now interrupts the emperor's tournament?

Raiden, Smoke and Johnny Cage walk into the Coliseum.

SMOKE: Sub-Zero?! No!

Raiden holds him back.

RAIDEN: You cannot save him! Stay here or they will take you as well.

Sektor and Cyrax are now bowing before Shao Kahn.

SEKTOR: We request that we may return him to our temple for judgment.

SHAO KAHN: And what do I gain from granting this bold request?

CYRAX: The Lin Kuei's loyalty and service.

SHAO KAHN: Very well. He is yours.

Cyrax and Sektor bow once more before Kahn.

RAIDEN: The flow of time has been changed. I spared Smoke this fate, only to watch this new Sub-Zero fall.

The cyborg ninjas approach the restrained Sub-Zero.

SUB-ZERO: No! I will not be turned!

They all activate their stealth camouflage and leave the area.

SHAO KAHN: Kitana!

Kitana faces him.

SHAO KAHN: How is it that Earthrealm ninjas brazenly appear before me when my daughter, Princess of Outworld, was sent to intercept them?

KITANA: Father, I

SHAO KAHN: Begone!

Disheartened, she leaves the Coliseum.

SHAO KAHN: (To Shang Tsung) Continue.

RAIDEN: Kitana's faith is a slender reed, bent before the storm. If it can be uprooted altogether...

He walks off after her.

JOHNNY CAGE: Sure. Let's go ruin someone else's life.

He follows. Smoke, noticably upset by the loss of his friend, joins them a few moments later.

4.10. CHAPTER 9: KITANA
Back in the Wastelands, Kitana and Jade are conversing.
KITANA: Is this how you show your loyalty, Jade?

JADE: Kitana, I

KITANA: You follow me when I clearly wish to be alone, then you upbraid me? I will not be scolded like some child!

JADE: You need to be careful. I have never seen your father this angry with you.

Kitana dismisses this advice and begins to walk away.

JADE: You are a princess. He expects more from you than this.

KITANA: I know what he expects!

JADE: We will talk later. When you are in more of a mind to listen.

She walks off, leaving Kitana alone. At the sound of a lightning flash, she turns around to face Raiden, Johnny Cage and Smoke.

RAIDEN: Princess Kitana. I request an audience.

KITANA: Earthrealmers! You dare approach me?

JOHNNY CAGE: Hey listen, honey, we don't wanna fight.

SMOKE: But we will if we must!

KITANA: You will learn respect!

They fight. Both Johnny Cage and Smoke find out the hard way that this was the wrong time to approach Kitana. Caught offguard by her furious assault, both of them are soon lying on the ground in front of her.

KITANA: Shao Kahn wants death to follow kombat. I will give it to him.

RAIDEN: Perhaps Liu Kang was wrong about you. Or perhaps he sensed, as I do, that there is conflict within you.

Raiden helps Johnny back to his feet.

JOHNNY CAGE: Thanks. Ow. You couldn't've seen that in one o' your hot flashes?

He walks off to help Smoke back up, leaving Raiden and Kitana alone.

RAIDEN: Something whispers to you that circumstances should be different. That you should be different. You are much more like Sindel than Shao Ka

Raiden sees another vision, one of Sindel brainwashed and screaming.

RAIDEN: But... she is dead...

KITANA: My mother is dead, yes. Why do you

RAIDEN: You need answers, Kitana. I can help you find them, if you will trust in me. Go to Shang Tsung's Flesh Pits. Much will be revealed there.

KITANA: The Flesh Pits? But I am forbidden to

RAIDEN: Yes. You are. And why is that?

KITANA: I... don't know. Tell me

RAIDEN: You must discover your true path. Alone.

He walks off and teleports away offscreen. The scene then changes to Kitana walking through the Living Forest. She looks around and then comes to a standstill.

KITANA: Show yourself, Jade. I know you're following me. Again.

Jade walks in front of her.

JADE: Following you still. I know where you're going. I am ordered to prevent you from going there.

KITANA: And why is that?

JADE: I do not question the emperor's commands. Kitana, please. Turn back.

KITANA: I cannot. This path might lead me to the truth. I'm sorry, Jade... but I will not allow you to stop me.

They fight. While her friend is an athletic and agile warrior, Kitana's fighting skill and determination see her through the battle. Eventually Jade is beaten unconscious.

KITANA: I tried to warn you... This is something I have to do.

She walks off and into the Flesh Pits. Looking around, she spots what appear to be remains of Tarkatans, their blood spilled and flesh removed. Several tubes of liquid contain unidentifiable humanoid abominations. One in particular catches Kitana's eye. The occupant of the tube is naked except for several bandages in strategic places, and aside from the grotesque mouth being of a Tarkatan origin, the face, hair and body is that of Kitana.

KITANA: What in the name of...

She backs away and walks over to a table that has another clone on it. This one is identical to the one in the tube. Kitana leans in for a closer look.

KITANA: She looks like... me!

The clone suddenly opens it's eyes, revealing them to be of the same orange glow as a Tarkatan's. Gasping, Kitana backs up.

MILEENA: Sister!

The clone sits up and gets off the table.

MILEENA: So pretty, so fair, so sad and alone... Come. Let us be a family!

KITANA: You are not my family. You are a monstrosity!

They fight. Kitana finds out the hard way that the clone is able to use magical powers and is not averse to getting violent. Nonetheless, her own weapons and fighting skill manages to see her through the fight, and eventually the clone is left unconscious on the floor.

KITANA: Farewell, sister!

Before she can finish the clone, Shang Tsung walks into the Flesh Pits.

SHANG TSUNG: That is no way to treat your sibling.

KITANA: Despicable swine! Do you think my father will stand for this... these... abominations you have created here?!

SHANG TSUNG: I am merely perfecting you, princess. As difficult as that might be.

KITANA: Silence! I will drag you before Shao Kahn by your pointed beard!

They fight. Despite the sorcerer's recent revitalisation, Kitana's fury gives her the edge in the fight. She soon has Tsung on the floor, beaten.

KITANA: Get up.

She picks him up by the shirt.

KITANA: You will stand before my father and confess your deeds.

She turns him around, shoves him forward and leaves the Flesh Pits with him. In Shao Kahn's throne room, Tsung is kneeling with two Tarkatan guards standing over him.

KITANA: I would not disturb you, father, if this matter were not of upmost importance. I felt you should know what Shang Tsung has been doing as of late. This conjurer has created horrid replicas of me crossbred with Tarkatan blood! One was alive and attacked me!

Shao Kahn stands from his throne and walks toward Shang Tsung. He looks toward Kitana, and then to Tsung... and motions with his hand that he rise.

SHAO KAHN: Well done, sorcerer.

Tsung bows his head and smiles before standing.

KITANA: You know... You... approve? How could you? My own father!

SHAO KAHN: I am your emperor! Your father was a weaking Edenian king. I annihilated him while merging his realm with Outworld and took his queen as my wife. If only I had not allowed Sindel to convince me of your worth... But now I have a true daughter!

KITANA: Raiden was right. You have lied to me my entire life.

SHAO KAHN: (To the guards) Escort her to the Tower. I will make an example of her.

The guards restrain Kitana and carry her off. Shao Kahn addresses Shang Tsung once more.

SHAO KAHN: Return to the Flesh Pits. Bring me my daughter. Mileena.

As the Tarkatan guards escort Kitana off, Jade follows them outside of Kahn's view.

JADE: I failed you, Kitana. Now I will make amends.

4.11. CHAPTER 10: JADE
In the Armoury, Baraka and another Tarkatan are inspecting a crate of shotguns.
BARAKA: That is all of them.

Baraka puts his shotgun in the crate. The other Tarkatan, fiddling with a shotgun of his own, points the barrel directly in Baraka's face. Angrily, Baraka swipes the gun from him.

BARAKA: That is no toy! It belongs to Shang Tsung! We are finished. Return to your post.

The Tarkatan walks off. Baraka places the shotgun in the crate and turns to spot Jade walking toward him.

JADE: Stand aside. I will see Kitana.

BARAKA: No one enters the Tower.

JADE: You are an excellent guard dog, Baraka. But you must learn to heel.

BARAKA: I do not take orders from you.

They fight. While a vicious fighter, Baraka is unprepared to deal with Jade's agility and her reach with her staff and boomerangs. After an intense battle, Jade soon has the Tarkatan down on the ground.

JADE: Good boy.

Baraka groans as Jade walks over to him.

BARAKA: Edenians have no loyalty.

JADE: Blind loyalty is not a good thing, as I have learned. You must keep your eyes open to anticipate the finishing blow.

BARAKA: What are you talki

Jade interrupts him by stamping on his face, knocking him out.

JADE: You make it too easy.

She walks off. In the Tower, Kitana is magically bound to a statue with Sheeva standing over her as jailer.

SHEEVA: If you had not dishonoured yourself by

KITANA: Jade!

Sheeva turns to face the newcomer.

SHEEVA: My orders are clear. No one is allowed in the Tower.

JADE: As you can see, I am here.

SHEEVA: Here to help the princess escape! You would deny her execution? The only means of regaining her honour?

JADE: We have very different concepts of honour, Shokan.

They fight. Much like Baraka before her, Sheeva has quite the difficulty fighting someone with as much agility and reach as Jade does, even with two extra arms to help her. The battle soon ends with Sheeva unconscious.

JADE: Not much of a jailor, are you?

She turns to Kitana.

JADE: Now then, Your Highness, let us see how quickly we can remove these bonds.

KITANA: Jade, I...

JADE: I am too.

Before she can continue, she hears a sound from behind the door to the Tower.

BARAKA: Stop her!

MILEENA: Do not let her get away!

KITANA: Go. Find Raiden. Ask for his help.

With no choice, Jade does as Kitana asks. The scene cuts to the Wastelands. Jade has just finished running from several unseen assailants.

JADE: That should distance me from any pursuers.

Mileena (now clothed in her purple attire) then teleports in front of her. Jade turns to face her.

MILEENA: Others pursue. I find.

JADE: By the gods... You are Mileena!

MILEENA: You must return with me! There is to be a celebration for my sister! She is going away...

They fight. While Mileena is an adversary just as quick and fierce as Jade, she lacks the fighting experience of the Edenian warrior. After an intense battle, Jade manages to beat Mileena unconscious.

JADE: I am more of a sister to Kitana than you. I must find Raiden.

RAIDEN: He is here.

Raiden teleports into the wastelands with Liu Kang, Kung Lao, Johnny Cage and Smoke. Upon spotting Mileena's body, Smoke immediately jumps to the wrong conclusion.

SMOKE: Kitana turns away from Shao Kahn so you attack her rather than join her?

Jade holds up a hand in mercy.

JADE: This is not

Raiden holds back Liu Kang and the others.

RAIDEN: Smoke, stop! That is not Kitana!

SMOKE: You will come no closer!

They fight. Although she doesn't want to battle, Jade has no problem defending herself against an unwarranted attack. After a brief melee, Smoke is down on the ground.

JADE: I did not wish to do that.

Raiden approaches as Jade as Smoke picks himself up.

JADE: Lord Raiden. I come at the request of

While they're speaking, Johnny turns to Liu Kang and Kung Lao.

JOHNNY CAGE: "Lord"? I was with Smoke. I thought she was a bad guy eh, girl. Guess he turned another one. What's Raiden got that I haven't got?

LIU KANG: God-like power?

KUNG LAO: A personality that is not at all like sanding paper?

JOHNNY CAGE: Jerks.

JADE: ...if we do not save her, she will be executed. Kitana does not have much time!

At the mention of Kitana, the guys walk forward to join the conversation.

LIU KANG: Kitana... executed? Where is she?

JADE: Held captive in the Tower of Shao Kahn's fortress.

LIU KANG: I wil

RAIDEN: I am not pleased with this outcome either, Liu Kang. But there is no time. We must return to the tournament.

LIU KANG: But you are responsible for her capture! You persuaded her to turn against Shao Kahn!

KUNG LAO: Lord Raiden, we can free her as others fight in our stead, and join you thereafter.

RAIDEN: Very well.

Liu Kang and Kung Lao nod to each other, and as Kung walks off, Liu only pauses to give Raiden a brief look of comtempt before joining him.

KUNG LAO: We will meet you at the Coliseum.

4.12. CHAPTER 11: KUNG LAO
Kung Lao and Liu Kang make their way to the Tower. No one is present.
KUNG LAO: I hope your girlfriend is worth Lord Raiden's anger, Liu Kang.

LIU KANG: Notice that I am ignoring you.

They look around the Tower, but still find no one.

KUNG LAO: Hmm... They must have relocated Kitana.

Just then, Sheeva opens the door to the Tower on one side. On the other side, a ninja who looks like a dark wraith opens them on the other side.

NOOB: We have indeed. We knew someone would come for her.

Liu Kang and Kung Lao nod to each other. While Kang begins fighting with Sheeva, Kung Lao faces down Noob Saibot.

NOOB: May you join her in death!

They fight. The wraith is unlike anything Kung Lao has faced before, with his ability to conjure both dark magic and shadow clones of himself to fight with. Nonetheless, Kung Lao's fighting ability and mastery of the Shaolin arts sees him through the fight, and eventually he leaves the wraith down on the floor.

KUNG LAO: Be thankful I choose not to spill your tainted blood.

As Noob struggles to remain conscious, Kung Lao notices something about him.

KUNG LAO: Who are you? There is something familiar...

Behind him, Lao notices Liu Kang is still fighting Sheeva.

KUNG LAO: Do you need help? Four arms against two is hardly a fair fight.

GORO: Liu Kang?!

Kung Lao turns around to see Goro. The Shokan roars and gets into a fighting stance.

KUNG LAO: You have had your match against Liu Kang. Now you will face me!

They fight. Goro proves just as much of a challenge to Kung Lao as he was to Liu Kang, but the Shokan's overconfidence allows Kung Lao an edge that Liu Kang didn't have. After a fierce battle, the Shaolin monk eventually defeats the former champion of Mortal Kombat.

KUNG LAO: Now, if you have any honour left... you will tell us where Kitana is!

By now, Liu Kang has defeated Sheeva and is also standing over Goro.

GORO: She has been taken to the Coliseum, where she has no doubt been executed.

LIU KANG: You lie!

He stomps on Goro's face, knocking him out.

KUNG LAO: She may let live. Let us go.

They leave the Tower. Back at the Coliseum, Ermac punches Johnny Cage across the face twice. Johnny tries a kick, but Ermac grabs his leg and smashes his elbow onto Johnny's knee, dislocating it. Ermac lays him out with a palm strike, leaving him writhing in pain on the ground.

SHANG TSUNG: Ermac wins!

Liu Kang and Kung Lao return. They spot Kitana chained up next to Shao Kahn's throne.

KUNG LAO: There's Kitana.

LIU KANG: I must free her!

Raiden notices their appearance and runs after them.

RAIDEN: Not now! Smoke and Johnny Cage have been defeated, and I no longer sense Jackson Briggs' or Sonya Blade's presence in Outworld. Despite my doubts as to whether you are Earthrealm's saviour, you must fight!

LIU KANG: But I am not "He Who Must Win".

Liu Kang walks over to where Kitana is, ignoring everyone else. The Tarkatans surrounding her put up fighting stances, but Shao Kahn watches him pass dismissively.

SHAO KAHN: Raiden! Put forth a worthy champion... if you can.

Kung Lao begins to step forward, but hesitates. He looks to the Thunder God, who considers the implication.

RAIDEN: Perhaps you are meant to be the victor.

Smiling, Kung Lao steps forward.

SHAO KAHN: You will face Shang Tsung.

Tsung smiles while clenching his fist.

SHAO KAHN: And Quan Chi.

It is now Quan Chi's turn to smile. Shang Tsung is less than happy with this turn of events, but goes along with Quan Chi to face Kung Lao.

QUAN CHI: No Earthrealm boy can stop this Deadly Alliance.

SHANG TSUNG: On that we agree.

They fight. Fighting one sorcerer alone would be a challenge, let alone both of them at once, but it is a challenge Kung Lao more than steps up to. Using all of the fighting skill at his disposal, he puts up an amazing battle and, against all the odds, emerges victorious against the two sorcerers.

KUNG LAO: It is done!

SHANG TSUNG: No, Kung Lao. Not nearly so.

Quan Chi and Shang Tsung pick themselves up and walk back to Shao Kahn's throne. The gates to one side of the Coliseum open to reveal a gigantic Shokan - or more accurately, a tiger Shokan. As the crowd cheer the beast's appearence, he roars out loud and faces Kung Lao.

KINTARO: I will eat your heart!

They fight. The tiger Shokan proves to be the most intense fight of Kung Lao's life. It takes everything the Shaolin monk has left in him to remain in the battle, but he eventually manages to fight his way through Kintaro's defenses and take the melee to him. Finally, the mighty Kintaro falls to Kung Lao's onslaught and is left unconscious on the floor.

Laughing in victory, Kung Lao parades to the booing crowd, bowing in mockery and waving his hat at them. He then turns to the Thunder God.

KUNG LAO: You see, Raiden? Earthrealm is fre

He never finishes the sentence, as Shao Kahn grabs him from behind and snaps his neck like a twig. The crowd burst into cheers as Kung Lao falls dead.

RAIDEN: Kung Lao!

Liu Kang, who's knocked out the Tarkatan guards and is in the process of freeing Kitana, watches the whole thing happen.

LIU KANG: NO!!

As Kahn basks in the crowd's cheers, Raiden charges up a lightning blast.

RAIDEN: I will strip the flesh from your bones!

Roaring in fury, Liu Kang tackles Shao Kahn from behind. They wrestle on the ground, forcing Raiden to cancel his attack. Kahn quickly kicks Kang off him and they both pick themselves up, Kahn laughing as he does so.

SHAO KAHN: Witless boy. Do you know who I am?

LIU KANG: The murderer of my friend!

SHAO KAHN: I am Shao Kahn! Konquerer of Worlds! You will taste no victory.

LIU KANG: You will taste your own blood!

They fight. Shao Kahn is every bit the mighty warrior he claims to be, with control of both dark magic and superhuman strength at his disposal. But Liu Kang, fuelled with vengeance at seeing his friend die, takes it to the emperor and dishes out an absolutely brutal beating. Finally, after an epic battle, Kahn is knocked to the floor.

LIU KANG: On your feet!

As Kahn struggles to his feet, barely conscious, Liu Kang raises his fist, which lights up with his signature fire.

LIU KANG: For Kung Lao, the Shaolin and Earthrealm!

In slow motion, Kang charges forward and punches Shao Kahn straight in the chest, his fist bursting through the other side of Kahn's body. He withdraws his fist and Kahn falls to his knees, coughing up blood. With a final gurgle, he falls forward, unmoving. The arena is completely silent.

SHANG TSUNG: I cannot believe... Earthrealm has won.

As with Liu Kang's victory before, a light from the heavens shines down on him, the Elder Gods noting his victory in the new tournament.

RAIDEN: The Elder Gods have spoken. Earthrealm is free of Shao Kahn forever.

With a flick of his head, Tsung motions to two Tarkatan guards. They pick up Kahn's body and walk off. All of Kahn's minions follow, save Kitana. Kitana walks up to Liu Kang's side. They look briefly at each other, but say nothing as they both lay eyes on Kung Lao's body and walk over to it.

RAIDEN: But the price of victory was almost too steep to pay. Kung Lao's death is my fault. I encouraged him. Our triumph was not meant to be achieved in this way. I see now. "He must win" refers to you. But to prevent Armageddon, you needed to defeat Shao Kahn, not Shang Tsung.

Raiden takes his amulet off his chest and looks at it once more. More cracks adorn it.

RAIDEN: It cannot be! Shao Kahn is dead! Yet the future remains unchanged!

Liu Kang looks up in confused anger at Raiden, which goes unnoticed by the Thunder God.

Back in Shao Kahn's throne room, all of his lieutenants (Baraka, Goro, Mileena, Sheeva, Ermac, Sektor, Cyrax, Shang Tsung and the centaur Motaro) are discussing what to do next.

GORO: Shao Kahn is finished.

BARAKA: Mileena is his heir. She should rule.

SHANG TSUNG: Mileena? She exists only because of my sorcery.

SHAO KAHN: And you breathe because I restrain mine.

The lieutenants turn around. Shao Kahn is indeed alive and walking toward them, albeit shakily and with a hand on his former chest wound, with Quan Chi by his side.

SHANG TSUNG: Emperor!

MOTARO: You live!

Everyone except Tsung bows before him.

SHAO KAHN: I am not so easily killed. Quan Chi accelerated my recovery.

SHANG TSUNG: Emperor, I

SHAO KAHN: Not. One. Word. Because of you, Outworld can no longer merge with Earthrealm!

QUAN CHI: There may yet be an alternative, Emperor. Invasion.

SHANG TSUNG: Uh Invasion?!

Shao Kahn holds his hand up. Tsung immediately shuts up.

SHAO KAHN: Do you mock me? Sindel's Ward prevents me from setting foot in Earthrealm.

QUAN CHI: Have you considered why your wife and empress chose to betray you in this particular fashion?

SHAO KAHN: Of course. But even after millenia, her motives are a mystery.

QUAN CHI: She realised that the safeguards afforded by the Elder Gods through Mortal Kombat are but fiction. She sacrificed herself to give Earthrealm protection the Elder Gods could not. So Earthrealm could not suffer as had Edenia.

SHAO KAHN: Indeed.

The scene cuts to a desert wasteland in Earthrealm. Quan Chi and Noob Saibot are standing before a green swirling of magic.

QUAN CHI: I have mastered the spells necessary for her resurrection. Her ward will be nullified. And with it the barrier that prevents your entry into Earthrealm.

From the magical swirl, a skeletal hand raises itself from the ground.

QUAN CHI: I will return her to you, of course.

Another skeletal hand joins it.

QUAN CHI: You will find her much more... cooperative.

SHAO KAHN: This is a very magnanimous offer.

QUAN CHI: I wish only to serve, Emperor.

The rest of the skeleton pulls itself from the sand.

SHAO KAHN: I am weary of sorcerers, Quan Chi. Prove your worth. Bring her to me.

Quan Chi rolls the skeleton over with his magic and begins reproducing it's former muscle mass, blood, organs and skin. The skeleton screams out loud as the process completes itself. Noob readies himself in a combat stance as Quan Chi approaches the form. Finally, the newly resurrected woman - Queen Sindel - sits upright. Her pupils are glazed over with white, and there's not a stitch of clothing on her (although the camera doesn't view her from her cleavage down).

QUAN CHI: Sindel.

SINDEL: Quan Chi?

QUAN CHI: Shao Kahn looks forward to your return.

SINDEL: The emperor! Yesss.

Quan Chi motions to Noob, who lets his guard down.

SINDEL: What of Kitana?

QUAN CHI: Kitana now allies herself with Earthrealm.

SINDEL: Then she is no longer my daughter. Take me to Shao Kahn.

QUAN CHI: Yes, Empress.

He stands up.

QUAN CHI: (to Noob) The invasion of Earthrealm can now begin.

The camera cuts to a black screen. A loud cry of "Incoming!" is heard as explosions go off. Briefly, the sound cuts to white noise, then as it returns to normal, it brings with it the sight of a devastated New York City.

4.13. CHAPTER 12: STRYKER
The U.S. Army is fighting a losing battle against Tarkatans equipped with shotguns and rocket launchers, as well as twenty foot high Outworld monstrosities. Kurtis Stryker and his partner Kabal are currently standing on a rooftop, watching the Outworld invaders advance.
STRYKER: Fifteen... Sixteen... Seventeen... Eighteen. Kabal, call it in.

KABAL: Base. Eagle Two. We count eighteen. One-eight bogies. Southbound on Olympic.

BASE: Roger that.

KABAL: Eagle Two out.

STRYKER: This is not happening.

KABAL: Not what I was thinking when I swore to protect and serve.

STRYKER: What is that?

They look down the building to see Reptile climbing towards them.

KABAL: I'm thinking shoot first, ask questions later.

STRYKER: Fine with me.

They begin shooting at Reptile, but he dodges the shots with ease and continues climbing. As he nears the top he leaps over them and lands behind them.

STRYKER: Pistols!

They draw their pistols and fire again, but Reptile blocks the attacks by spewing forth some acid vapour, which acts as a shield. As the two officers reload, Reptile strikes with his tongue, disarming Kabal and knocking him over. He then tongues Stryker's gun, disarming him.

STRYKER: Enough of this! It's you and me, Freakshow!

They fight. Although unaccustomed to fighting Outworld warriors, Stryker's rigourous training and arsenal of weapons manages to see him through the fight. Eventually he leaves Reptile on his back, defeated.

STRYKER: Spitting? Sticking out your tongue? Bet your mama's real proud.

Stryker walks over to Kabal and helps him up.

STRYKER: C'mon. We're going street level. We've been compromised.

KABAL: It ain't safe down there.

STRYKER: Better there than here.

He walks off, leaving Kabal sighing and shaking his head. The scene then cuts to the two of them at the ground level of the building they're in. Army troopers are falling back, being chased by one of the gigantic monsters seen earlier. Kabal notices someone on the bridge across from them.

KABAL: Stryker! Check her out!

Stryker looks and the camera follows. They both see a female in a rather revealing purple leotard and leggings.

KABAL: Whaddya think? Friend or foe.

STRYKER: Foe.

KABAL: Dressed like that?

STRYKER: Definitely foe. Cover me.

As army troopers round a corner to fight an unseen foe, Stryker walks out to the bridge. As Mileena approaches, he calls out to her.

STRYKER: Hey, what're you doing out here?

She laughs and pulls off her mask, revealing her Tarkatan features.

MILEENA: Looking for a new playmate!

They fight. Restraining himself to using non-lethal force, Stryker manages to eventually subdue the feral "daughter" of Shao Kahn.

STRYKER: You're coming with me.

A loud roar causes Stryker to turn his head to the bridge to the left of him. A large creature, shaped like a gigantic pterodactyl, flies overhead. While he's distracted, Mileena manages to pick herself up and charge at him, when several lightning bolts shock her into unconsciousness. Raiden - who fired the bolts - floats down from the sky and lands next to Stryker.

STRYKER: Who... who are you?

Before Raiden can answer, he grabs his head in pain as he receives another vision. This time, we are not shown what it is.

STRYKER: You all right?

As Raiden recovers, a loud roar by the other bridge attracts their attention. They see Johnny Cage getting beaten up by a centaur - Motaro.

STRYKER: Johnny Cage fighting a giant monster? What is this, "Time Smashers"?!

Raiden flies over to the bridge and blasts Motaro with lightning before he can deliver a fatal blow. He finishes off Motaro by hitting him with his torpedo attack. The resultant force sends Motaro through the bridge and into the water below.

KABAL: That guy just shot lightning. From his hands. How'd he do that?

STRYKER: No idea.

A loud growling eminates to their right. Before them, they see Kintaro approaching.

STRYKER: Spread out. Give 'im multiple targets.

Kabal moves to Stryker's right, across the bridge. Before he can pull the trigger, Kintaro blasts him with his flame breath. Kabal is set ablaze, screaming in agony as his skin cooks. Stryker is prevented from rushing to his aid lest Kintaro does the same to him.

KINTARO: Humans. Less ugly when they burn.

They fight. Not holding back anything this time, Stryker lets Kintaro have the full brunt of his weapons. Even so, it takes everything he has and then some to knock the Shokan unconscious.

STRYKER: Never knew I had it in me...

A loud groaning catches Stryker's attention.

STRYKER: Kabal!

He rushes over to his partner, who's clothing and skin are practically charcoal and activates his radio.

STRYKER: Base! Eagle Two!

BASE: Go Eagle Two.

STRYKER: Need Medevac. Current position. Kabal is down. Third-degree burns.

BASE: Medevac unit routing to you. ETA ten minutes.

Over by the subway, Stryker fails to notice Ermac sneaking up on him. Ermac grabs Stryker with his telekenesis and lifts him into the air.

STRYKER: What the?!

BASE: Say again?

STRYKER: Eeeeugh!

BASE: Eagle Two, report! Eagle Two!

Stryker is then telekenetically hurled into the subway. He bounces hard off the escalator railing and lands facedown on the platform. As he struggles to his feet, Ermac floats down to face him.

ERMAC: The emperor will have your soul.

STRYKER: Yeah? Come and get it!

They fight. Ermac's telekenesis and mastery over magic is something completely alien to Stryker, but he adapts quickly and fends off the assault with his own weaponary. After an intense battle, Stryker finally drops Ermac.

STRYKER: I think I'll be keeping my soul.

Stryker's attention is bought to the top of the escalator by another voice.

NIGHTWOLF: I have been searching for you, Kurtis Stryker.

Stryker draws his pistol and trains it on the newcomer.

STRYKER: Well you found me! Who are you?

NIGHTWOLF: I am Nightwolf. Lord Raiden is gathering Earth's defenders. You are among them.

STRYKER: What the hell are you talking about?!

NIGHTWOLF: Raiden leads Earth's defense against these Outworld invaders. He is our best hope for survival.

STRYKER: Yeah, well. "Earthrealm Defender" is about ten steps above my pay grade.

NIGHTWOLF: I see you doubt yourself, even after your victories. Come.

After some consideration, Stryker nods his consent, puts away his gun and follows. The scene cuts to the bridge, where only a smoking outline remains of Kabal's body.

STRYKER: What?

Both he and Nightwolf have run up to the outline.

STRYKER: Where is he? Medevac hasn't been here.

NIGHTWOLF: Perhaps he has gone to find help.

STRYKER: Naw, he was way too banged up. Someone took him.

The scene cuts to black. All that is heard is heavy, strained breathing, along with occasional sounds of a person being operated on. We are suddenly treated to a viewing of various gadgets strewn across a bloodied table. Among the gadgets are a scalpel, scisccors, tweezers, breathing apparatus and a mask. A hand takes each piece of the breathing apparatus off the table - a hand belonging to Kano. He attaches the pieces one by one to an unseen person. Finally, he puts the mask on - and the camera shot finally reveals who the person is.

4.14. CHAPTER 13: KABAL
Kabal's skin is scarred heavily from the burns, but it's no longer looking like charcoal. He begins to wake up, groaning as he does so. It's now apparent that the both of them are in Shang Tsung's Flesh Pits.
KANO: Easy there, mate. You've had a rough one.

KABAL: Kano?

KANO: Heh heh, in the flesh.

KABAL: I was... on fire...

KANO: Burned to a crisp, you were. Good thing I found ya.

Kabal touches the mask on his face.

KABAL: I'm hideous...

KANO: Shang Tsung's magic healed the rest of ya. But your lungs? Yeesh.

KABAL: Take it off.

KANO: Can't. It's permanent.

KABAL: What?

KANO: No mask, no breathing.

KABAL: I'm... a freak!

Kano holds up a pair of hookswords. As Kabal is looking at the rest of his attire, Kano offers the weapons to him.

KANO: Go on. Give 'em a whirl.

KABAL: I don't use those anymore.

KANO: Yeah, you're all proper police now. The Black Dragon ain't the same without ya, mate. You should come back. We're in the money on this war.

KABAL: You sold those monsters their firepower.

KANO: Guilty as charged.

KABAL: This is YOUR fault!

KANO: What're you on about, eh?

He drops the hookswords.

KANO: You're here, ain't ya?

KABAL: I should be dead! Now you're gonna be!

They fight. Kabal finds out that not only is he still an able fighter, but he finds himself fighting with multiple new powers he didn't have before, including super speed. He gets the hang of these new powers quickly and uses them to completely overpower Kano, knocking him to the ground.

KABAL: Now how do I get outta here?

KANO: Not so keen on being dead now, are ya?

Kabal retrieves his hookswords.

KABAL: How do I get outta here?

KANO: Heh, good luck. No one gets outta Outworld with Shao Kahn's say-so.

KABAL: Outworld? Shao Kahn?

KANO: Shao Kahn's the big boss round here, and soon, Earth's new master.

Kabal points the hookswords at Kano's neck.

KABAL: Where is he?

KANO: Don't bother. You can't get near him.

KABAL: No. But I'm guessing you can.

The scene cuts to Shao Kahn's throne room. Mileena, along with several Lin Kuei cyborgs and Tarkatan minions, drag Motaro's body through a portal on a slab.

SHAO KAHN: What is this?

MILEENA: Raiden has killed Motaro.

Kabal enters the room, with Kano in front of him. The latter has one of his own knifes being weilded by Kabal and pointing into his back.

KABAL: That's him? On the throne?

KANO: You're a right genius, you are.

SINDEL: It's no great matter. I will go to Earthrealm. To finish Motaro's work.

SHAO KAHN: Yes. Shang Tsung.

SHANG TSUNG: Yes, Emperor?

SHAO KAHN: The empress requires something of you.

Kahn blasts Tsung with his magic and sucks out all of the souls within him, disintegrating him into nothing.

KANO: See there? I'm thinking he's a bit much

Kabal hits him with the blunt end of the knife, knocking Kano out.

KABAL: I can take him.

Shao Kahn blasts the power of the souls into Sindel. While he's doing so, Kabal walks into the room. Noob Saibot and Mileena notice this and move to intercept him.

MILEENA: No one attacks the emperor!

They fight. While fighting two on one would be a severe handicap for most, Kabal's new powers enable him to take the fight to both of Shao Kahn's minions. After an intense battle, he puts both Mileena and Noob down for the count.

KABAL: And I thought I was a freak.

With Mileena and Noob down, the Tarkatan and Lin Kuei minions all surround Kabal.

SHAO KAHN: Quan Chi! Seal the portal!

KABAL: Time to go.

He zips across the room just as the minions all try to grab him, coming to a stop at the portal.

KABAL: Huh?

After a moments hesitation, he leaps through the portal before Quan Chi seals it. He lands back at the bridge he was at previously, and the portal closes behind him. He rolls over onto his back and sits up.

KABAL: This speed's incredible! Guess it's a side-effect of the Outworld magic.

The camera cuts to the point of view of an unseen assailant, clearly cybernetic in nature. The newcomer examines Kabal through a database on it's heads-up display. The search comes up blank.

CYBER SUB-ZERO: You are not authorised for portal use.

KABAL: Yeah? Says who?

We now see the cyborg in question. His robotic suit is colour-coded blue, and his hands pulse with ice energy.

CYBER SUB-ZERO: Sub-Zero. Unit L-K-5-2-0.

KABAL: Heh, you say that like it means something.

CYBER SUB-ZERO: As you will soon discover.

They fight. As a cyborg, Sub-Zero is more powerful than ever, boasting an array of ice attacks and cybernetic powers his previous form could never muster. However, Kabal's mastery of his new powers proves to be an equal match to the cyborg, and with a few clever moves Kabal manages to disable Sub-Zero and power down his systems.

KABAL: Ha! Not as cool as you thought.

Just then, Sheeva walks onto the bridge.

SHEEVA: Why do you turn on your brother, Lin Kuei?

KABAL: That is not my brother. He's machine. I'm human.

SHEEVA: You do not appear human.

KABAL: Don't let the mask fool ya.

They fight. As powerful as Sheeva is, she is little match for Kabal and his super speed. After a brief battle, Kabal soon has Sheeva knocked out on the floor.

KABAL: Starting to feel like the old days - only faster.

Behind Kabal, Smoke and Raiden walk onto the bridge.

SMOKE: Sub-Zero!

He rushes to his friend's side and kneels by him. Raiden faces Kabal.

RAIDEN: You have great power indeed, Kabal.

KABAL: Wait. You're the lightning guy. You helped Stryker. Stryker! Is he

RAIDEN: He is safe. He has joined us in the fight against Shao Kahn. We would welcome your aid also.

SMOKE: Sub-Zero!

Raiden turns to Smoke.

RAIDEN: That which made him Sub-Zero no longer exists.

SMOKE: He is my friend. What they did to him... it is... hideous.

KABAL: You're right. We gotta help him if we can.

Kabal helps Smoke lift Sub-Zero up for carrying. The scene then cuts to black. It stays like like for a moment, and all that can be heard is the background noise of diagnostics. Then the word "_INITIALIZING" pops up on the screen.

JAX: That's it. Here goes nothing...

Sub-Zero's mainframe begins rebooting, all of which is seen from his point-of-view.

SMOKE: You are certain this will work?

JAX: Hell no! I've never done this before. It's not like there's a manual.

The screen is suddenly lit up in red. The word "OVERRIDE" shows up in enlarged text. It successfully engages, and Sub-Zero tries connecting to a wireless uplink. The connection fails and an error pops up, noting his command and control module is missing. With that, his slaving protocols are disengaged and his autonomous command module is engaged, restoring his higher brain function. Smoke looks directly into his eyes at this point.

SMOKE: Sub-Zero? (To Jax) Can he hear me?

JAX: He should.

Sub-Zero locks onto Smoke's eye and does a retinal identification.

SMOKE: Sub-Zero?

The scan provides Sub-Zero with information about Smoke, including his age, country of origin (both unknown), his allegiance (Lin Kuei) and special ability (teleportation).

CYBER SUB-ZERO: Yes, Smoke.

SMOKE: How do you feel?

4.15. CHAPTER 14: CYBER SUB-ZERO
The camera cuts to a view of the temple the heroes are currently in. Cyber Sub-Zero sits up on the slab he's been placed on. He grunts in displeasure.
SMOKE: What is it?

CYBER SUB-ZERO: I remember... The things I have done for Shao Kahn...

Smoke places a hand on his friends shoulder.

CYBER SUB-ZERO: He cannot be allowed to merge the realms.

Nightwolf turns to Raiden.

NIGHTWOLF: Haokah, how can Sub-Zero best help us?

RAIDEN: I do not know. My attempts to alter future events have had negative consequences. Sub-Zero should never have undergone this transformation. Enlisting him may only further divert the flow of time.

STRYKER: We need intel, right? Let's send him back to Outworld undercover.

CYBER SUB-ZERO: They will be unaware of my defection. I could deceive them.

Raiden considers this in silence. The scene then cuts to Shao Kahn's throne room. Sektor and Cyrax are conversing with Noob Saibot, while several Tarkatan minions await orders. A portal has been opened and Cyber Sub-Zero walks through it.

NOOB: Earthrealm is finished. It will not be missed.

SEKTOR: Very well. You will return.

Noob and Cyrax walk off into the portal, with the minions following.

SEKTOR: You report late. Where is the intruder?

CYBER SUB-ZERO: I killed him in Earthrealm.

SEKTOR: He should have been saved for interrogation.

CYBER SUB-ZERO: He was formidable. I had no choice.

SEKTOR: Follow me. We must lead a new mission.

Sektor walks into the portal and Sub-Zero follows. They emerge in the Subway.

CYBER SUB-ZERO: What mission brings us here?

SEKTOR: I have scanned your neural net, 5-2-0. Your neuromodulators have been recalibrated.

CYBER SUB-ZERO: Impossible.

SEKTOR: The experience has been deleted from your system. Remove your access panel.

As Sektor moves in, Sub-Zero grabs his wrist and palm-strikes him in the chest, sending him careening across the platform.

SEKTOR: Your programming has been corrupted.

CYBER SUB-ZERO: My soul was corrupted. Now it is cleansed.

They fight. Sub-Zero would have been a match for Sektor even without his cybernetic upgrades; with them, the match is one-sided and ends quickly with Sektor's systems being knocked offline.

CYBER SUB-ZERO: Artificial enhancements are no substitute for the human soul.

Sub-Zero walks over to Sektor's inert form and accesses his mainframe. The camera cuts to his POV as he hacks into the system and discovers Sektor's true orders; they are to escort military prisoners from Vogel University to St Dominic's Cemetary for processing, with uncooperative prisoners being expendable. Sub-Zero also finds the path being taken from the station to the university and the cemetary.

CYBER SUB-ZERO: Thank you, Sektor.

The scene cuts to the clock tower of St Dominic's Cemetary. Eight army soldiers are currently being kept prisoner, with Kano, Goro and Kintaro watching over him. Kano takes the opportunity to blast the soldiers with his eye laser, laughing as he does so.

KANO: Oy! Run about, will ya?

Cyber Sub-Zero enters the clock tower.

KANO: Finally! C'mon, we gotta get 'em to the graveyard at Saint Dominic's. On yer feet, all of ya!

CYBER SUB-ZERO: For what purpose?

KANO: Don't care, really. So long as I get paid.

KINTARO: He said on your feet!

GORO: C'mon, up.

KINTARO: Get up.

Two ice blasts freeze Goro and Kintaro where they stand.

KANO: Hey! What're

Sub-Zero freezes him with an ice blast as well and then turns to the soldiers.

CYBER SUB-ZERO: I will help you.

He takes a hold of the chain shackling the soldiers together and freezes it. He punches the frozen chain and it shatters completely, freeing the soldiers. Goro and Kintaro begin breaking free of the ice they are bound in.

CYBER SUB-ZERO: Go! All of you! Now!

SOLDIERS: Let's go! C'mon!

The soldiers make their escape just as Goro and Kintaro break free of the ice.

KINTARO: Your treachery will be punished!

They fight. Facing both Goro and Kintaro at once would be impossible odds for any normal human, but Sub-Zero was no ordinary human even before he was turned into a cyborg. Nonetheless, the fight is one of the most difficult of his life, but eventually he prevails against the Shokan warriors.

CYBER SUB-ZERO: All those teeth and claws, yet still overmatched.

Suddenly, the clock tower starts shaking, causing the bells to ring. A burst of green light appears near the exit and the soldiers seen before are all telekentically tossed back into the room.

CYBER SUB-ZERO: Behind me!

The soldiers struggle to their feet and comply as Ermac floats into the room.

CYBER SUB-ZERO: Come no further, fiend of Outworld!

They fight. Not even Shao Kahn's personal enforcer is a match for Cyber Sub-Zero, and the red garbed ninja is soon defeated by the cyborg.

CYBER SUB-ZERO: You are not so fearsome.

With Ermac down, the soldiers surround and congratulate Sub-Zero.

SOLDIER 1: Thanks. I thought we were done.

CYBER SUB-ZERO: I must go. I need to investigate the graveyard.

SOLDIER 2: We'd go with, but we have to return to our unit.

CYBER SUB-ZERO: That is for the best.

The cyborg leaves immediately.

SOLDIER 1: Good luck, man.

SOLDIER 2: He ain't gonna need luck.

In the cemetary, Noob Saibot is magically drawing two lines across the ground, creating a ring around another captured group of soldiers. Quan Chi is nearby, chanting a spell in a Netherrealm tongue. Cyber Sub-Zero is kneeling by a gravestone, undetected by either of them. The soldiers surrounded by the ring begin to glow green with the rising energy around them. Sub-Zero speaks into a wrist-communicator.

CYBER SUB-ZERO: This is Sub-Zero. I have encountered Quan Chi. He seems to be casting a spell.

Back at the temple, Sonya has her wrist-comm on speaker for the Forces of Light to listen in. Raiden receives another vision - this one of the Soulnado engulfing New York City.

NIGHTWOLF: Raiden, what is it? What did you see?

RAIDEN: One of Shao Kahn's Soulnados, on a scale I thought unimaginable. All of Earthrealm's souls imprisoned, absorbed by Shao Kahn, multiplying his power!

NIGHTWOLF: That is what Sub-Zero has found?

Raiden looks his amulet. More cracks and a burnt signature adorn it.

RAIDEN: No matter my efforts, the future remains in peril. How could I have failed Earthrealm?

NIGHTWOLF: Do not lose faith in the spirits, Raiden. They will guide you. Protect you. Sub-Zero, we will disrupt the Soulnado. I will be there momentarily.

The scene cuts back to the cemetary.

CYBER SUB-ZERO: Hurry. The spell appears to be nearly complete.

Sub-Zero stands from his hiding place and walks into the clearing.

QUAN CHI: Who is that?

NOOB: The one Kano warned about. He is mine.

Noob walks toward Sub-Zero.

NOOB: You. You are not worthy of the name Sub-Zero.

CYBER SUB-ZERO: Who are you to judge?

NOOB: I wore those colours before you.

CYBER SUB-ZERO: Bi-Han?!

NOOB: Yes, Kuai Liang. It is I. Quan Chi restored me.

CYBER SUB-ZERO: Restored? You and I both. We are flawed copies of our former selves.

NOOB: I have no flaws. Quan Chi has perfected me.

CYBER SUB-ZERO: For what end? To serve the Netherrealm and Outworld?

NOOB: It suits my purpose.

CYBER SUB-ZERO: But brother, we

NOOB: We share blood. We are not brothers.

CYBER SUB-ZERO: Then I will not regret your defeat.

They fight. Bi-Han may have had power granted to him from the Netherrealm upon his death, but Kuai Liang's cybernetic upgrades prove to be superior in battle. After a fierce battle, Kuai Liang manages to defeat his brother and leave him unconscious.

CYBER SUB-ZERO: You are right. We are not brothers.

Quan Chi finishes chanting the spell and the soldiers are absorbed in the newly created Soulnado, which reaches into the heavens. Nightwolf arrives at that moment and addresses Sub-Zero.

4.16. CHAPTER 15: NIGHTWOLF
NIGHTWOLF: Go! Your soul is not safe!
Sub-Zero takes the advice and hurries off.

QUAN CHI: Earthrealm's fate is sealed, Nightwolf!

NIGHTWOLF: Not yet! We fight until the end!

They fight. Nightwolf's protection from Quan Chi's magic and his own mystical powers give him equal footing in the battle with the Netherrealm sorcerer, and his fighting ability gives him the edge needed to defeat him. After an intense fight, Nightwolf beats Quan Chi to the ground.

NIGHTWOLF: Your time is over.

Before Nightwolf can finish Quan Chi, Noob Saibot recovers and rushes him. Nightwolf blocks and avoids his attacks before striking with a right cross to Noob's face. Noob fights back, only to get a backfist blocked and take a left hook to the kidney. Nightwolf goes on the offensive, but Noob counters a downward punch, twists Nightwolf's arm and strikes him in the chest with an open palm. Nightwolf growls in anger and charges in, lands a solid punch across Noob's face and kicks him into the Soulnado.

Noob Saibot is sucked up into the Soulnado, infecting it with his wraith-like powers. As he is pulled into the heavens, the Soulnado turns from glowing green to purple. Quan Chi pulls himself to his feet, and realising the battle is lost, immediately opens a portal and escapes. Nightwolf generates a mystical shield to protect himself as the Soulnado gathers itself into a giant portal and explodes outward. Nightwolf is thrown from his feet as the shockwave travels across the cemetary, destroying everything in the immediate radius. Nightwolf, however, is unharmed and sits up.

NIGHTWOLF: Pilamaya. ("Thank you" in Lakotan.)

Back at the temple, the Forces of Light are in the midst of a discussion.

SONYA: But how do we know? Raiden could be having visions of possible futures, not the future.

JAX: Sonya's right. Was I supposed to have my arms replaced with these? Or was it caused by interfering with the timeline?

JOHNNY CAGE: My head hurts just thinking about it.

KITANA: This isn't helpful. We cannot second guess our decisions. Raiden, what are your thoughts?

Raiden is unresponsive.

KITANA: Raiden?

He suddenly reacts.

RAIDEN: Yes, that is best.

CYBER SUB-ZERO: What is our next objective?

LIU KANG: Nightwolf!

The Forces of Light turn to see Nightwolf approach them.

NIGHTWOLF: It is done. Earthrealm's souls are safe.

Raiden looks at his amulet. More cracks appear on it.

RAIDEN: No! How is it not enough?!

He slams a palm down on the slab in front of him.

RAIDEN: I must speak with the Elder Gods. Shao Kahn's violation must be punished.

LIU KANG: But the battle is joined here, in Earthrealm!

RAIDEN: We cannot win without the Elder Gods.

LIU KANG: But Master

JOHNNY CAGE: Liu Kang, close as a shadow...

RAIDEN: Nightwolf, you will lead until we return.

NIGHTWOLF: As you wish, Haokah.

Raiden takes a hold of Liu Kang and they disappear in a flash of lightning.

STRYKER: Well, now what? Standing around here won't do us any good.

CYBER SUB-ZERO: Wait!

He looks around.

CYBER SUB-ZERO: The Lin Kuei! They surround us!

Multiple Lin Kuei cyborgs reveal themselves around the temple.

STRYKER: So much for standing around.

NIGHTWOLF: Attack!

The Forces of Light immediately charge the cyborgs. Nightwolf goes for Cyrax, but his attack is blocked and Cyrax punches him in the stomach, and then across the face. As Cyrax moves in, Nightwolf recovers and kicks him back. They circle one another.

CYRAX: My speed and skill are beyond you.

They fight. Despite Cyrax's cybernetic enhancements, Nightwolf's spirit powers keep him both in the fight and able to take it to the cyborg. Eventually Nightwolf leaves Cyrax disabled on the ground.

NIGHTWOLF: Mere speed and skill will not win this war, Cyrax.

With Cyrax down, Nightwolf looks around the temple and sees Smoke battling Sektor on the stairwell. Smoke is unable to even land a hit against the cybernetic assassin. Sektor grabs his hand as Smoke throws an ineffectual strike.

SEKTOR: You are weak, Smoke.

Sektor blasts him in the chest with his afterburn strike, sending Smoke careening down the stairs.

SEKTOR: Now do you understand? The power of the Grand Master's vision?

Before Sektor can finish Smoke, Nightwolf throws his tomahawk across the temple and hits Sektor in the chest. As the mystical weapon dissolves back into Nightwolf's hands, Sektor throws up a fighting stance and faces down the shaman.

NIGHTWOLF: You are no match for the power of the Spirits.

They fight. While Sektor has filled his robotic form to the brim with weapons and technology, it doesn't give him the advantage against Nightwolf's mystical strength. After a fierce exchange, Nightwolf manages to leave Sektor down and disabled on the ground.

NIGHTWOLF: Perhaps even you can be saved.

Around the temple, Smoke repeatedly punches a cyborg and kicks it down. Kitana decapitates another with her bladed fans. Cyber Sub-Zero is busy reprogramming another downed opponent with Kabal watching. As Nightwolf checks the area, Kitana walks up to him.

NIGHTWOLF: What is it?

Kitana doesn't reply at first, but then she spots what she was looking for.

KITANA: Mother...

Sindel walks into the temple, letting off a banshee scream multiplied tenfold from her original powers. Sonya and Stryker are pushed to the stairwell by the force, Sub-Zero is forced to generate an ice shield, Jade wards off the attack as best she can with her staff, while Johnny Cage only keeps his balance by holding onto one of Jax's arms. Only Nightwolf is uneffected by the scream.

SINDEL: Come forward, if you dare. I will finish what the Lin Kuei could not.

The Forces of Light quickly come together.

JAX: Let's do this.

NIGHTWOLF: Attack!

Nightwolf charges Sindel with a tomahawk raised, but she parries the attack and punches him across the face, knocking him down. Johnny Cage tries next, but Sindel blocks his attacks, grabs his arm, knees him and punches him in the face, letting him drop. Kabal moves in, but Sindel kicks him down before he can even strike and stomps her heel straight through his respirator, killing him. She lets off a laugh as she does so.

Stryker attacks next, but Sindel dodges his attack, kicks him in the knee and caves in his lower jaw with a ferocious punch, killing him. Cyber Sub-Zero charges in, but Sindel blocks his attack, punches him across the face, rabbit punches him and unleashes a brutal uppercut to his face that destroys his mainframe and sends his body flying away, sparking as it does so. Jax runs to face her, but she grabs both of his arms and drives her heel square into his throat, spraying blood from his neck and killing him too.

Smoke tries to kick Sindel, but she grabs his leg, knees him in the groin, then grapples him in a sleeper hold and snaps his neck. Sonya charges right into a high kick that sends her sprawling. Jade rushes forward and tries to punch Sindel, but Sindel grabs her hand and punches her in the face twice. Kitana runs forward with a roundhouse kick, but Sindel ducks it and grabs Kitana in a choke hold. She kicks Jade away and throws Kitana aside, before turning to Jade and finishing her by tearing out her stomach.

As Sindel throws the organ aside, Kitana attacks again. Sindel blocks her attacks, punches her twice and kicks her down. As Kitana tries to rise, Sindel grabs her arm, pulls her in and repeatedly punches her in face, before dropping her with a flying kick. Kitana rolls over onto her stomach, and though unable to stand, gets to her knees.

KITANA: Mother, please!

SINDEL: I am no longer your mother.

KITANA: Mother, this is not your way. Shao Kahn has corrupted you!

SINDEL: Shao Kahn has resurrected me! You have betrayed him. Embraced a pathetic cause.

KITANA: Remember Edenia, mother. Remember your rule before Shao Kahn's invasion!

SINDEL: Quiet, child. It is time for you to join your friends.

She generates a purple swirl of magic and begins draining Kitana's soul. Nightwolf drags himself toward her.

NIGHTWOLF: Monster!

Sindel turns around, stopping the spell on Kitana, who falls unconscious, and faces Nightwolf.

SINDEL: Still alive? No matter. Soon you will reunite with your ancestors.

They fight. Empowered by Shang Tsung's magic and strength, Sindel proves to be the toughest fight of Nightwolf's life. It takes all of his fighting ability and protection from the Spirits to even keep in the fight, but in the end he gains an advantage and knocks Sindel to the floor.

NIGHTWOLF: Now, Sindel. Face the Spirit's judgment.

Sindel rises without effort and laughs in his face. Nightwolf begins a chant in his native tongue and a light from the heavens surrounds him. He blasts Sindel with lightning from his hands. The camera switches to Sonya, who has also survived Sindel's assault. She looks up to the ceiling.

SONYA: Raiden... Raiden, where are you?

On another plane of existence entirely, Raiden and Liu Kang stand in the temple of the Elder Gods.

RAIDEN: Elder Gods, I beseech you. Earthrealm is in danger.

There are six Elder Gods, all of varying genders and appearance, towering over Raiden and Liu Kang in spirit form, but they all speak at the same time.

ELDER GODS: We are aware of your plight, Raiden.

RAIDEN: Then you must intervene on Earthrealm's behalf.

ELDER GODS: We cannot.

RAIDEN: But Shao Kahn... Liu Kang has bested him twice, yet he still

ELDER GODS: Shao Kahn has not violated the rules of Mortal Kombat.

RAIDEN: What?! He invades Earthrealm as we speak!

ELDER GODS: Invasion is not itself a transgression. It is the merger of realms that is proscribed.

RAIDEN: A distinction without a difference! Innocents are dying at the hands of Outworld!

ELDER GODS: It is regrettable. But the Mortal Kombat tournaments are not intended to prevent certain outcomes. They are intended only to maintain balance among the realms.

RAIDEN: Please, you must

ELDER GODS: We have spoken.

The Elder Gods' spirit forms disappear, leaving Raiden and Liu Kang alone.

RAIDEN: The last doors are closing. We are nearly trapped.

The scene fades away to black. Back at the temple, Nightwolf crashes through the sacrificial alter. The fight has obviously not gone well for him. Sindel walks over to him and wraps her elongated hair around his midsection, dragging him into the air.

SINDEL: Victory is mine, Shaman.

She generates the purple aura around her hands and starts draining Nightwolf's soul.

NIGHTWOLF: Not if I... take it - from - you!

He starts another desperate chant in his native tongue and his hand starts to glow with blue energy. Sindel laughs as he does so. As his chant increases in volume, he begins to glow blue as well. A cloud of mystical energy appears and both kombatants are blazed in blue light. Raiden teleports in with Liu Kang just in time to witness this.

LIU KANG: By the Elder Gods!

Screaming one final time, Nightwolf releases the spell and the blue light turns to a blazing white, engulfing both Sindel and himself. Liu Kang and Raiden are forced to cover their eyes. Sindel screams as she is disintergrated by the light, and Nightwolf does the same as he also dissolves into nothing. The light dissipates, leaving no evidence that Sindel or Nightwolf ever existed.

KITANA: Liu Kang...

LIU KANG: Kitana!

Liu Kang rushes to Kitana's side and grabs her hand. She doesn't even have the strength left to sit up.

KITANA: Liu Kang... You were right. I wish we had met... under... different... cirumstances.

LIU KANG: Kitana...

She gasps and then finally breathes her last. As her body goes limp, Liu Kang falls to his knees, still grasping Kitana's hand.

LIU KANG: They are dead.

RAIDEN: Liu Kang, I

LIU KANG: We abandoned them and they're dead.

RAIDEN: My heart, too, is heavy with their sacrifice.

LIU KANG: Their deaths achieved nothing!

Raiden looks once more at his amulet. More cracks adorn it.

LIU KANG: What is next, Raiden? Tell me the future! How do we honor their "sacrifice"?

RAIDEN: I climbed to heaven, now I must plunge into the depths. I will go to Quan Chi. Ally our realm with his against the forces of Outworld.

LIU KANG: What?! Grovel before Quan Chi?! What will he demand? What price will be paid?

RAIDEN: Would any price be too high to save Earthrealm?

LIU KANG: I had prayed it not true. But you have gone mad, Raiden. Your visions. They are nothing. Delusions of an addled mind.

RAIDEN: Liu Kang, please.

A groaning sound catches Liu Kang's attention. Out of all of the Forces of Light, only Johnny Cage and Sonya have survived, and they are badly injured.

LIU KANG: Enough. I must help the wounded. Leave on your hopeless quest.

He gets up and walks towards the fallen heroes. Raiden looks at him as he passes.

RAIDEN: May the Elder Gods protect you.

He teleports away in a flash of lightning.

4.17. CHAPTER 16: RAIDEN
Raiden reappears in the Netherrealm. He walks forward, looking around.
RAIDEN: Quan Chi! Quan Chi!

Scorpion appears before him in a flash of hellfire.

RAIDEN: It disappoints me to see you here.

SCORPION: Save your pity.

RAIDEN: I will have an audience with Quan Chi.

SCORPION: You may address me. I will inform him.

RAIDEN: Is this why you chose not to save your family and clan? To maintain your place at his feet?

SCORPION: Do not talk of my family, Raiden!

RAIDEN: Fetch your master, Scorpion. I must speak with him.

SCORPION: You speak only with me.

They fight. While Scorpion's is increased by the Netherrealm and Raiden himself is at a disadvantage outside of Earthrealm, Raiden demonstrates that he didn't become the protector of Earthrealm by being a pushover in kombat. He takes the fight to the ninja specter and manages to knock him to the floor.

RAIDEN: Now, Scorpion. Fetch your master.

Scorpion teleports away and Quan Chi appears in his place.

QUAN CHI: You seek an audience.

RAIDEN: I seek cooperation. Between Earthrealm and the Netherrealm.

QUAN CHI: Losing the battle, are you?

RAIDEN: We will prevail. But with the Netherrealm fighting at our side

QUAN CHI: You lie poorly, Raiden. Earthrealm's defenses are overwhelmed. You have mere hours.

RAIDEN: ...Name your terms.

QUAN CHI: What do you offer?

RAIDEN: I offer... I offer the souls of Earthrealm warriors who die in this conflict.

Quan Chi bursts out laughing.

RAIDEN: They would agree.

QUAN CHI: You are cavalier with other men's souls.

He turns away and prepares to leave.

RAIDEN: Not just others! I offer my own soul as well. If I die, you will have it.

Quan Chi stops and turns around.

QUAN CHI: How noble, Raiden. Yet utterly pointless.

He channels his magic and makes the warriors who fell in battle reappear before them. All have their eyes glazed over with white and their bodies a sickly grey in colour, with cracks across their skin and clothing.

RAIDEN: No!

QUAN CHI: You see, their souls are already mine. Shao Kahn's payment for Netherrealm's allegiance.

RAIDEN: No! This was not meant to be!

QUAN CHI: Earthrealm has lost, Raiden. Now so shall you. Finish him.

Jax, Stryker and Kabal walk forward.

JAX: As you command, my master.

They fight. With no choice, Raiden has to battle Jax and defeat him. No sooner does he manage this, when Stryker attacks. After he repels the former police officer and takes him down, Kabal charges in. Raiden again is forced into battle, whereupon he defeats Kabal as well.

RAIDEN: May the Elder Gods watch over you.

QUAN CHI: The Elder Gods cannot help them. Their souls are mine. Kitana. Nightwolf. Kung Lao.

KITANA: You sealed our fate in this place, Thunder God. You have condemned us all.

They fight. Raiden is forced to fend off Kitana's assault, and as soon as she goes down, Nightwolf jumps into battle. Raiden takes care of him and then faces down Kung Lao. After another reluctant battle, Raiden manages to defeat him as well.

RAIDEN: Curse you, Quan Chi.

QUAN CHI: Shao Kahn's victory is nearly complete. Soon he will arrive in Earthrealm.

RAIDEN: No! The Elder Gods cannot allow it.

QUAN CHI: The Elder Gods are toothless. Your world is near destruction, yet they do not act.

RAIDEN: They must! Only through Mortal Kombat may Shao Kahn merge the realms. Lest he face the judgment of the Elder Gods...

Raiden realises what he's just spoken.

RAIDEN: ...Lest he face the judgment of the Elder Gods! He must win!

QUAN CHI: It is you who face judgment, Raiden.

Jade, Smoke and Cyber Sub-Zero walk toward Raiden, preparing to fight.

RAIDEN: Thank you, Quan Chi. I now know what must be done.

He teleports away in a flash of lightning. Quan Chi smirks as he does so. Raiden reappears on the rooftop Stryker and Kabal were at earlier in the day. The area is now devastated from Outworld's assault and a giant portal has been opened on the rooftop. Shao Kahn's throne has already been placed on the rooftop. Liu Kang runs onto the rooftop and spots Raiden, folding his arms in disgust.

LIU KANG: Back from the Netherrealm empty-handed, I see.

He begins to walk toward the portal.

RAIDEN: Liu Kang! Liu Kang, I now realise what we must do. We must allow Shao Kahn to merge the realms!

LIU KANG: That is insane!

RAIDEN: The Elder Gods forbid it without victory in Mortal Kombat. When he does, the Elder Gods' fury will fall upon him.

Liu Kang shakes his head in denial.

RAIDEN: Defeating Shao Kahn before the merge is but temporary. He will return, bringing Armageddon. I have foreseen it!

LIU KANG: Enough, Raiden!

A sound from the portal catches their attention. Shao Kahn is beginning to walk through it.

LIU KANG: He is here.

He moves toward the portal but Raiden grabs his arm.

RAIDEN: No! Do as I say! Have faith in the Elder Gods.

He releases Liu Kang's arm.

RAIDEN: Have faith in me.

Liu Kang shakes his head and starts for the portal. Again Raiden stops him.

RAIDEN: Liu Kang, I cannot let you fight Shao Kahn!

LIU KANG: Then you are my enemy!

They fight. Raiden is forced to defend himself against Kang's furious assault. Fueled by desperation, both kombatants fight with all of their strength, and it is an even match due to the merger weakening Raiden's powers. However, Raiden manages to get an advantage and he knocks Liu Kang to the floor.

RAIDEN: Liu Kang, do not interfere!

Liu Kang struggles to his feet. Shao Kahn is still wading through the portal. Johnny Cage and Sonya arrive at that moment to witness Liu Kang get to his feet and rush toward the portal.

RAIDEN: Liu Kang, stop!

Raiden blasts lightning at Liu Kang's feet to stop him. In response, Liu Kang charges up his fist with his signature fire.

JOHNNY CAGE: Liu Kang! Raiden! No!

Johnny and Sonya run forward.

LIU KANG: Enough of your madness! If you must die, so be it!

Liu Kang charges forward with the intent of running through Raiden as he did Shao Kahn. In self defense, Raiden generates a shield of lightning. As Kang collides with the shield, the resultant backlash not only blasts Liu Kang with lightning, but his own fire as well. Kang screams as his body is both electrified and scorched at the same time.

RAIDEN: By the gods, NO!!

Raiden rushes to Liu Kang's side as he falls over, the electricity and fire wearing off. He cradles Kang's head in his hand.

RAIDEN: No. This was not meant to happen.

JOHNNY CAGE: What did you do?!

Liu Kang is having difficulty breathing and he is blinded in his left eye, but the look of hatred on his face says everything.

RAIDEN: Liu Kang, forgive me...

LIU KANG: You... have killed us... all...

He gasps for air and dies. Raiden closes his eyes sorrowfully. Meanwhile, Shao Kahn has finally stepped through the portal.

SONYA: C'mon! It's up to us!

Sonya and Johnny run forward to face Kahn, but he laughs and blasts them away with his magic, knocking them both unconscious. Seeing Kahn approach, Raiden gets up and bows to him.

SHAO KAHN: Ah, Raiden. You have come to your senses.

RAIDEN: Earthrealm's citizens suffer. Further resistance serves no purpose.

SHAO KAHN: All these ages you have fought me. You denied me my rightful claim. Not this time.

He uppercuts Raiden across the rooftop. Raiden lands hard on his back, his hat falling from his head. The scene briefly flashes forward to Armageddon, where the same happens to Future Raiden, before fading back into the present.

SHAO KAHN: The Elder Gods fear me now!

He laughs and picks Raiden up. Again the scene flashes to the parallel scene from Armageddon.

SHAO KAHN: Their pathetic Mortal Kombat shackles me no longer!

Kahn methodically pounds Raiden across the face, with the scene flashing between the present and Armageddon. In the present, Kahn throws Raiden across the rooftop and his amulet falls, shattering into pieces. Raiden lands on the very edge of the rooftop and Kahn stalks over to him. His hammer magically appears in his hand.

SHAO KAHN: They masquerade as dragons, but are mere toothless worms.

As Raiden rolls over, Kahn slams his boot into his chest. Again the scene flashes to the same one in Armageddon.

SHAO KAHN: I know you can feel it. It is the end of all things.

In the present, Kahn glows green with the energy of the souls he has consumed.

RAIDEN: Elder Gods, where are you? Why do you forsake me?

Shao Kahn picks Raiden up again. The scene flashes to Armageddon once more.

SHAO KAHN: Your time has passed.

In the present, he throws Raiden across the rooftop.

SHAO KAHN: Ages wasted in foolish resistance.

Raiden struggles to his knees.

SHAO KAHN: I have won.

RAIDEN: Yes... you have won.

SHAO KAHN: Now, Raiden. Your world ends.

Kahn lifts his hammer up and prepares to deliver the finishing blow. Before he can, golden lightning flashes before his feet. More flashes strike the rooftop around them, and from a portal from the heavens, six golden dragons fly out and around Raiden's body, lifting him into the air and revitalising him. With a final flash, Raiden stands before Shao Kahn, his wounds healed and his hat back on his head. The dragons still surround him and when he speaks, his voice is of the Elder Gods.

RAIDEN: You violate our will, Shao Kahn. You merge realms without victory in Mortal Kombat. Our penalty is clear.

Raiden charges up a golden variation of his lightning and blasts Shao Kahn with it. It has no effect and Kahn laughs out loud.

SHAO KAHN: An anemic effort from ineffecualt deities. Today, I become THE Elder God!

They fight. The battle is truly epic, with neither the repowered Raiden or Shao Kahn getting any clear advantage for the majority of it. For what seems like an age, the two titans with everything they have, but eventually the Thunder God prevails and knocks Kahn to the floor. As he struggles to his feet and tries to charge again, Raiden blasts him once more with the golden lightning.

This time, the blast has an effect, and the dragons surround Kahn as he is blasted. They begin biting into his body at various places, causing him to scream in pain. His body is scorched by their magic while Raiden is finally released from their control. As he falls forward in exhaustion, the Elder Gods' assault on Shao Kahn cause the warlord to explode in a flash of golden light that reaches to the heavens. The Elder Gods immediately depart in the same light, and as the portal dissipates, the dark clouds surrounding the sky clear away, leaving the sun to shine through.

Raiden remains on his knees, and looks to his amulet one more time. Finally, the cracks adorning it are removed, and it remains as it once was.

RAIDEN: It is over.

He places the amulet back on his chest as Sonya and Johnny Cage help him to his feet.

RAIDEN: But only at the gravest of costs.

They all walk over to Liu Kang's body.

RAIDEN: So many are gone. Their light has sunk into the earth. I am responsible for their loss.

SONYA: You did what you had to. To protect Earthrealm. Losses in war... are... are inevitable.

RAIDEN: Come. Let us tend the fallen. Then we must help our realm rebuild. Our work has only just begun.

He teleports himself, Johnny, Sonya and Liu Kang's body away in a flash of lightning. Only Shao Kahn's war helmet remains on the rooftop, forgotten by all... except the one who walks through an unseen portal and picks it up; Quan Chi. As he examines the trophy, another being fades into existence before him.

QUAN CHI: Your plan worked to perfection, Lord Shinnok.

SHINNOK: Shao Kahn was blinded by rage. How easily was he convinced that the Elder Gods would ignore his merging the realms.

QUAN CHI: Yet the Thunder God still lives.

SHINNOK: No matter. Neither Earthrealm nor Outworld can now withstand the Netherrealm's onslaught. It is time. Soon I will be free. Earthrealm and Outworld will be ours.

Cut to black.