[Fog clears as two titans emerge from a vast sea.] ??? [V.O.] Long ago, the world was nothing more than an endless sea cloaked in a boundless sky, reaching as far as could possibly be imagined. [The titans begin to fight each other with massive swords. One uses a sword of earth and metal, while the other wields a blade of brilliant blue light.] ??? [V.O.] Then two great titans came into existence. The Bionis and the Mechonis. [With its blade of light, the Bionis cuts off the arm of the Mechonis, which falls into the sea below. The Mechonis now wielding its sword with one hand, the two continue their duel.] ??? [V.O.] The titans were locked in a timeless battle. [The Mechonis strikes the Bionis in its side as the blade of the Bionis digs into the Mechonis.] ??? [V.O.] Until at last... Only their lifeless corpses remained. [The screen stretches as the screen fades to white, then to black.] ??? [V.O.] Eons have passed. [Brief flashes of light can be seen, glimpses of a battle which is raging through the haze.] ??? [V.O.] Now our world, this vast land stretching across the remains of the Bionis, is under attack from a relentless force known as the Mechon. [Soldiers are shown fighting a hard battle against their mechanical foes, the Mechon, on a desolate field. These Mechon forces begin to overwhelm the people of Bionis.] Defence Force Soldier Retreat! Retreat! [A mobile artillery blows up some Mechon, but the machines keep advancing and attacking fallen soldiers.] Defence Force Soldier Get away from me! [As the Mechon advance, one soldier is using his mobile artillery's radio.] Defence Force Soldier Number of M78 Mechon is unknown! [This soldier is quickly taken by a Mechon's pincers and tossed to the Mechon behind it. As soldiers continue to retreat, one hero, Dunban, dashes in the opposite direction, towards the battle, and slices through Mechon with ease wielding a blade of intense blue light, much like the sword of the Bionis.] Dunban They're advancing down our weak right flank. For a bunch of soulless machines, they seem to know a thing or two. But we'll see. [Dunban activates his sword again as two of his comrades-in-arms, Dickson and Mumkhar, run to his side. The group has a hiding place behind an overturned vehicle as the battle rages around them.] Dickson Dunban! We've been given the order to retreat. We're pulling back the line to Colony 6. That's where we'll set up the last line of defence! Dunban Yeah. That's a good idea. Any more time spent hanging around here and we're done for. Mumkhar Count me in! We've gotta get outta here. Dunban Or we can stay and fight? Mumkhar What?! [An explosion rocks the place where the three are holing up.] Dunban We may die if we take a stand here. But staying gives us the chance to change our destinies. We have the Monado. [Dunban takes up his sword, the Monado.] Dunban With this, the future is ours for the taking! [Dunban leaps up to re-engage the Mechon, but Dickson pulls him back down.] Dickson Stupid beast! Your body can't take any more of the Monado. I can tell by just looking at you! Dunban Getting short sighted in your old age, Dickson? I'm fine. Don't worry, I'm still in control. Dickson I should've known I couldn't talk sense into a beast. Let's do this. I'm going with you! You'll need someone to drag your corpse home. Dunban As long as you think you've still got the strength in you, old man. Mumkhar Oi, you two! We've been ordered to pull back! I'm leaving! Dunban Well I say you're coming with us! What would we do without those? [Dunban looks at the Steel Claws with which Mumkhar is equipped, as the latter makes a noise of disgust.] Defence Force Soldier The enemy's second wave is approaching! Dickson It's now or never, Dunban. Let's show them what we've got. We'll give them a warm Homs welcome! Dunban Acknowledged! [Dunban and Dickson leap into battle, leaving Mumkhar by himself.] Mumkhar What're they trying to prove?! I'm not throwing my life away! No point dying in some godforsaken field. [Mumkhar rises nevertheless.] Mumkhar Nothing for it. I'll have to use Dunban as a decoy. That should give me time to escape. [Together the three fight off one horde of Mechon, only to see another legion of them approaching.] Mumkhar You've got to be kidding! Dickson It's their main force. Looks like the Mechon are hell-bent on taking us out. Dunban They'll have to be if they want to beat us. Now, let's even the odds a bit! Dickson [to Mumkhar] You heard him. [Mumkhar looks around in despair as Dunban activates the Monado.] Dunban Dickson, Mumkhar. Let's do this! [Dunban uses the Monado to Enchant his two comrades with a glowing purple light as the three tear through more Mechon. Finally, Dickson sees Dunban atop a pile of destroyed Mechon, crying out painfully as he's overwhelmed by the Monado, which eventually deactivates as Dunban collapses off the pile. A lone Mechon approaches the fallen warrior.] Dickson Dunban! [Dickson throws himself on Dunban, taking the hit meant for the latter, then fights off the Mechon and throws it down off the pile.] Dickson I ain't going down that easily! Dunban! You all right?! [Dunban sits clasping the Monado in apparent exhaustion.] Dunban What does it look like? I'm still good to go! [Elsewhere on the field, out of earshot, Mumkhar rises, laughing.] Mumkhar Guess even a hero's gotta reach his limit eventually. [As Dickson helps Dunban to safety, the latter notices Mumkhar fleeing.] Dunban Mumkhar?! What are you doing?! That way is- Mumkhar Sorry, brothers! Hate to drop this on you, but it's the Monado they're after. So have fun keeping 'em occupied for me! I'm getting the hell outta here! Dickson Mumkhar, you dirty... Mumkhar Don't worry. I'll organise your funerals! Well, see ya boys! Dickson Wait! [As Mumkhar runs off, an explosion sends Dickson and Dunban crashing to the ground. In the aftermath, a massive Mechon fortress unit approaches.] Dickson If this is a joke, it ain't funny. Looks like this is it. At least we know our luck can't get any worse from here. [Dunban gets to his feet.] Dickson Dunban? Dunban Dickson, take care of the survivors. [Dunban activates the Monado.] Dickson Dunban, what are you playing at?! [Meanwhile, Mumkhar is running away to a separate part of the battlefield.] Mumkhar Those idiots. I'll just come and get the Monado when everything's quietened down a bit. That thing's gonna be mine! [Mumkhar suddenly slips down the incline and takes a fall. At the bottom, red laser lights appear all over his body as unseen Mechon target him.] Mumkhar Oh no! Please! [Mumkhar cries out in despair as elsewhere Dunban is shown holding the Monado.] Dunban Vile Mechon! If you think the Homs, the people of Bionis, are just waiting here for you to pick us off... You are sorely mistaken! [Dunban rushes at the Mechon force as the view zooms out from him to the battlefield, to Sword Valley as a whole, to different regions of Bionis, and finally all the way out to the two titans locked in eternal combat upon which this whole world is based.] [Title card: Xenoblade Chronicles] - One Year Later - [A young man, Shulk, rummages through Mechon wreckage in a grassy canyon.] Shulk A Mechon M71! I bet I can use its optical system to align one of the Anti-Air Batteries. [Shulk discards the part.] Shulk No good. It's broken. [He picks up a different part.] Shulk The joint section. It's buckled. [He tosses away this part too.] Shulk It's completely useless. [Shulk then falls back to relax on the ground. But another Mechon piece catches his attention.] Shulk An M69! [He runs up to it.] Shulk Its armour would be perfect for making a shield. If I can just get it off, I should be able to... [But the Mechon shell starts moving of its own accord, knocking Shulk back. Just then, someone else, Reyn, runs in.] Reyn Shulk! [Reyn knocks the moving Mechon piece away with his shield.] Shulk Reyn! It's not a Mechon! It's just a Krabble! It was using the Mechon armour as a shell! Reyn I'll lure it away and Topple it! When it's down, use your Arts to finish it off! [Together, the pair take down both the Colony Krabble and a Common Caterpile that emerges afterwards.] Shulk Thanks, Reyn. That was a close one. Reyn Man, what were you doing wandering off by yourself? Stay where I can keep an eye on you. It's pretty dangerous outside of the colony. There are all kinds of monsters. Shulk Yeah. But thanks to you, we got its shell. Everyone in the colony's gonna be really happy. Reyn I'm more worried about you than the shell. Ah...whatever. Knowing what you're like, at least you'll make a decent weapon out of it. This Scrap Driver's excellent. Shulk I just learned by watching Dickson make weapons. Reyn 'Course, Dunban's weapon still beats them all. Shulk The Monado... I hope I can figure out the secret of its power one day. Reyn You will, Shulk. Anyway, we'd better get back to the colony. If I'm late for drills again, old Square-tache is gonna kill me. Shulk Square-tache? Oh, the Defence Force Colonel. He's pretty scary. Reyn Tell me about it... Shulk Sorry, I didn't mean for you to come all the way out here during your break. Reyn Don't worry about it. Let's get back. [Shulk accompanies Reyn back to the colony proper.] [Bionis area intro: Colony 9] [Shulk and Reyn arrive at the Main Entrance to the Commercial District in Colony 9. Small shops line the streets, and colony residents go about their usual business.] Reyn Here we are. I'd better stop in at HQ. You off to the Weapon Development Lab? Shulk Yeah, when I've sold any parts I can't use. Reyn All right. See you later. [Reyn sets off into the colony.] [Shulk arrives at the Military District. As he's walking along, the colonel's shouting catches his attention.] Vangarre You idiots! What the hell are you playing at?! Shulk [inwardly] Uh-oh! The colonel's gonna explode. Vangarre Crashing the mobile artillery into a house?! How long have you been in the force?! Defence Force Soldier Sorry, Sir. It's just that we were trying to go as fast as we could, like you ordered... Defence Force Soldier But it's impossible to get back to the Military District in only 40 seconds. Vangarre I don't want any excuses! Champions don't whine, they win! Defence Force Soldier Yes, sir. Vangarre You're a disgrace to the uniform! Are you forgetting the shame you brought on this force during joint manoeuvres with Colony 6?! Stick your back into it, maggots! Move it! Defence Force Soldier Yes, sir. Vangarre Get the artillery back to the Military District, double time! Then I want a million press-ups from both of you! And you better not stop until your biceps explode! Defence Force Soldier Colonel. We can't move the artillery. Vangarre What? You'd better give a damn good reason why! Defence Force Soldier Sir! The impact of the crash damaged the ether conduction cable! The ether fuel proceeded to leak out and now the cylinder is empty! Vangarre Well, change the cylinder then! Can't you even do something as simple as that?! Defence Force Soldier The auxiliary cylinders have all been used up. It'll be three days until more come in, Sir. Vangarre I told you to keep a stock of fuel in reserve! Defence Force Soldier Sorry, Sir... Vangarre You're nothing but slackers! [Vangarre proceeds to hit one of the soldiers as Shulk winces at the sight.] Shulk Same old colonel. At this rate, the men will all be dead before they see any action. [Shulk enters the Weapon Development Lab, where the Monado is being held in a special place. Dickson is sitting on the desk in the corner.] Dickson All right, Shulk. How are you? Shulk Dickson! When did you get back to Colony 9? Dickson Just now. I see you've been busy. [Dickson holds up a stack of papers.] Dickson Looks like your Monado research has been going well. I made the right choice leaving you in charge. [Dickson gets off the desk and walks over to Shulk and the Monado.] Shulk Your research notes really helped. Dickson So you can activate it now then? Shulk Well, anyone can activate it. The problem is controlling it. Dickson Yeah. For everyone except him. Shulk Yes. If anyone other than Dunban were able to control the Monado, we could surpass any military force in the world. Dickson You think so? What are these hidden functions you mention? Shulk It's still only conjecture, but it's starting to look like the Monado might be something far more significant than just a weapon for defeating Mechon. Dickson I see. And the evidence to support your theory? Shulk It's the symbol that appears in the centre when it's activated. What I know is, the central piece is made from multilayered glass. The symbol appears on the top layer. And each layer is constructed differently. Dickson So it's possible that other symbols could appear on different layers? Shulk Which means... Dickson The Monado might conceal even more power. Am I right? [Shulk nods in agreement.] Shulk If we could just unlock the Monado's power... [Flashback to Dunban being carried into Colony 9 on a stretcher after the Battle of Sword Valley, with his little sister, Fiora, and Shulk at his side. Behind them, Colonel Vangarre comes into view, bellowing orders.] Fiora Dunban! Dunban! Vangarre Prioritise the most severely injured! Come on! Get a move on! Shulk Dunban! Dunban [weakly] Don't look like that. I haven't gone yet. Shulk... [Dunban whispers something in Shulk's ear, causing the latter to gasp and step back from the stretcher. Shulk looks over to see the Monado inside one of the hover transports, leaning against the bulkhead. The screen flashes to white.] Dunban [V.O.] It was the Monado. It was...controlling me... Even so... It saved us...saved our future... Next...it will be up to you... [Back to the present.] Shulk Dunban... Dickson Well, I'd better get the supplies delivered to the Defence Force. I'll drop round the HQ and see how they're getting on. Shulk OK then. I'll see you later. [Dickson stops for a moment.] Dickson Shulk. You're spending too much time in the lab. Either that or rummaging for junk in the scrap yard. It ain't healthy for a kid your age. That's why you're always looking so pasty. You should get out, get some fresh air once in a while. [Dickson turns to go.] Dickson All right, I'm off. [Dickson departs with a wave and a chuckle. Shulk relunctantly leaves too, as the view closes in on the Monado.] [Within his house on the edge of the Commercial District, Dunban is in bed nursing his injured arm when his sister's voice jolts him out of his reverie.] Fiora Dunban, are you awake yet? [Fiora enters carrying a tray of food.] Dunban Is it time to eat already? You didn't have to bring it yourself. You could have just called me. Fiora Don't be silly! [Fiora sets the tray down on Dunban's bedside table.] Fiora Do you want me to feed you? [Dunban chuckles dismissively as Fiora sits down next to his bed.] Dunban Don't treat me like an invalid. I'm better than I was a year ago. Fiora Much better. I really thought I lost you back then... Dunban Yes. But now I'm almost well enough to handle the Monado again. [Fiora suddenly gets to her feet.] Fiora Dunban, don't say that! The Mechon have gone now! Why would you say that?! Dunban I just mean I'm prepared. Sorry. Fiora OK. More importantly, eat up before it gets cold. I made something really special today. Dunban Don't feel like you need to stay here then, Fiora. Go and make your next delivery. [Fiora makes a questioning noise.] Dunban Well, I'm sure you'd like Shulk to try some while it's still hot? Fiora That's OK. [Fiora sits back down on the floor.] Fiora Shulk has no sense of taste. He'll say it's delicious even if it's stone cold. [Dunban laughs.] Dunban In which case today he would actually mean it. Fiora Maybe. Dunban I'm fine, Fiora. Off you go. Fiora OK. [Fiora gets to her feet again and turns to Dunban as she begins to leave.] Fiora Dunban... Thanks. [She sets off down the stairs. Alone, Dunban can't even lift a spoon, which clatters to the floor. View of a portrait on Dunban's bedside table of him with Mumkhar on his right and Dickson on his left from one year earlier. Dunban seems to speak to his comrades in the picture.] Dunban I'm not finished yet. I have to be prepared to use the Monado again. [Exiting Dunban's House, Fiora runs into Dickson.] Dickson Hey, Fiora! Fiora Dickson! Dickson Looks like you're in a hurry. Where are you off to? Fiora I just thought I'd take Shulk some food. I'm on my way to the lab. Dickson Shulk's not there right now. Fiora Really? Dickson I just sent him out to get some fresh air. You know where he'll have gone. Fiora Outlook Park! Dickson That's the one. Fiora OK. Thanks, Dickson. [Dickson nods and leaves.] [Shortly, Fiora finds Shulk at Outlook Park, deep in introspection.] Shulk [inwardly] The Monado... It's the only sword that's effective against the Mechon armour. They say that before time began, it was wielded by the Bionis. The same Bionis that we all live on. It must have a secret. That's how Dunban was able to destroy so many Mechon. And why he lost the use of his right arm. If I can just unlock the secret of its power... Fiora [O.C.] Shulk! [Fiora holds up a pack of food for him.] Shulk Fiora! [Shulk begins eating the sandwich she's prepared for him.] Shulk This is great! It tastes so good! Fiora Really? Shulk It's amazing! Fiora Oh, Shulk, you say that every day. Shulk Not quite. It's always delicious. But today it's amazing. Fiora Really? Shulk Yeah. Fiora Thank goodness! I used some special herbs and spices today. So if you said it was just the same as usual, I'd know for sure you had no sense of taste! Shulk What? Fiora Oh, nothing. [Fiora sits back and looks out at the colony while Shulk eats.] Fiora The breeze feels so good. Shulk Yeah. I'd forgotten what it feels like. I never thought it could be so quiet here. Fiora You're spending too much time with Reyn. You're getting used to all the noise he makes. Shulk Yeah, maybe. [The two share a laugh.] Fiora It's so peaceful. You know, Shulk, I hope every day can be like this, always. [A siren in the colony interrupts their moment.] Shulk The debris siren. [Some chunks of debris fall from the sky.] Fiora Strange. There hasn't been much falling lately. [The colony's Anti-Air Batteries intercept the falling debris, blowing it all to bits. Shulk and Fiora make to leave the park.] Shulk There might be more on the way. The Anti-Air Batteries can't protect us out here. Let's get back to the lab. Fiora OK. [The two leave Outlook Park. They arrive at the Weapon Dev. Lab to find Reyn there as well, and all too close to the Monado.] Fiora Reyn? Shulk Reyn! What are you doing?! [Reyn picks up the Monado and turns around.] Reyn Shulk?! No, I'm just... [The Monado's centre piece begins to glow blue and then activates fully, dragging Reyn around the lab, who has completely lost control of the weapon. The Monado gashes various bits of machinery as Shulk looks on helplessly. It eventually slices into a machine's panel and Fiora's midsection at the same time - cutting the machine in two but leaving Fiora unharmed, though shaken up. The Monado then clatters to the floor and deactivates.] Shulk Reyn! [Shulk rushes forward as Fiora comes out from the corner, examining herself.] Fiora Goodness. [Reyn gets back to his feet.] Reyn Fiora! Are you OK? Fiora I'm fine. Shulk It's broken. [Shulk is on the floor, examining the machine that Reyn has inadvertently destroyed with the Monado.] Fiora What do you mean it's broken?! Don't you care about me?! I could have died! Shulk You're not hurt, are you? The Monado can't cut people. More importantly... What were you thinking, Reyn?! Reyn Sorry. I came to ask a favour but you weren't here. And I saw the Monado and- Shulk I know I'm here a lot. But even I need fresh air sometimes. Is your body still feeling numb? [Shulk rises to his feet after examining the broken machine.] Shulk We have to be very careful with the Monado. It's not a toy. Reyn I know, man. I just wanted to touch it. I didn't know it would do that. Sorry. But is it true? The Monado really can't cut people? Shulk The pattern in that circle... Or maybe it's a symbol? [Shulk picks up the Monado from the floor and takes it back to its place.] Shulk I think it shows which power the Monado has at the moment. Reyn You think it's a symbol? Shulk Well, if I can find a way to increase the number of symbols, I should... Fiora I'm sure that's all very clever. But! Why were you more worried about a machine than me, Shulk?! Shulk Well, I just... I just explained why. Fiora That's not the point! [Shulk backs up awkwardly in the face of Fiora's pointed questioning.] Shulk Sorry! [Shulk backs into a wall, hitting the Monado against it, causing the blade to reactivate and pulse with light. Shulk's eyes glow blue, and the screen flashes to white. He sees a series of visions.] [The first vision: Shulk is wielding the Monado against an unseen assailant, followed by one of an ancient Giant confined with mysterious shackles.] ??? [V.O.] Look at you! Worthless without the Monado! [Another vision: A woman aims her rifle, followed by a vision of a lordly, mechanical looking man.] ??? Until I've scrapped each and every one of you! [Another vision: A balding old man struggling inside a vehicle, followed by a vision of a girl with wings on her head.] Shulk [V.O.] So of course I want to get my revenge! [Another vision: A regal man with vast wings on his head turns suddenly, followed by a vision of Shulk in Colony 9 with an anguished look on his face.] ??? [V.O.] Your blade... It did not cut deep enough. [Another vision: A metal-faced Mechon suddenly uses its claws to slash inside a mobile artillery as Shulk screams in horror. Its claws emerge covered in blood.] Shulk [O.C.] No! [The visions end, returning Shulk to the present. He is visibly shaken by these images.] Fiora Shulk! Shulk! Reyn What on Bionis happened there?! Shulk Reyn, Fiora... Fiora Are you OK? Does it hurt? Shulk No. Reyn, when you held the Monado, did you see anything? Reyn You know... Like, a blue blade made of light came out. Same as just now. Shulk I don't mean that... A feeling like time had stopped. And then... Reyn Time had stopped? Shulk So...was it only me who saw that? Fiora That sounds strange. Is it another Monado thing? Reyn Who knows? Anyway, no matter how good a sword it is, if that's what happens when you hold it... Looks like Dunban really is the only one who can use it. Fiora I won't let my brother use it ever again! Not after what it did to him. Reyn Oh, sorry... I didn't mean it like that... Shulk Anyway, the point is, I'm fine. To be honest, this has happened a few times before. I've been researching the Monado for a long time. Fiora Shulk! Don't act as if this is nothing! Shulk Look, don't worry about it. Anyway, Reyn, what did you want to ask me about? Reyn Ah, yeah. Old Square-tache has gone and put me on punishment duty. Fancy tagging along? Shulk Punishment? The colonel was pretty angry today. Did he hit you? Reyn Well, whether he hit me is neither here nor there, really... Although actually he did end up hitting me. And that ain't all. He made me do a thousand squats and sit-ups. Shulk Whoa, nasty. Reyn Yeah. And now I have to go all the way to the Mag Mell Ruins and back. Shulk So you have to go and collect the Ether Cylinders? Reyn That's the one! They're used to power the mobile artillery. It looks like the damage's been repaired. But it can't move without the ether energy. And it seems like the fuelling station's all out of stock. Fiora Is the mobile artillery that big machine that crashed in the Residential District? Shulk Yeah, probably. Reyn You know your way around there, right? Shulk Yeah. OK, I'll go with you. Reyn Yeah! Knew you would! Fiora Hold on. The Mag Mell Ruins are in Tephra Cave, right? I heard that there's a Mell Lizard nest there. I couldn't take it if anything happened to Shulk. He's delicate - not like you, Reyn. Reyn What are you on about? Shulk I'll be fine. I can take care of myself. Fiora But... Reyn OK, I got it. I'll make you a promise. Shulk won't even get a scratch. Fiora A promise doesn't mean much coming from you! [Fiora storms off.] Reyn She don't trust me at all. Shulk Nah, she doesn't mean it. [Later, Shulk and Reyn reach the Tephra Cave Entrance, only to find that Fiora has already beaten them there.] Fiora You forgot something. You will be needing the transport cases, right? [Fiora walks towards them, holding the three transport cases in her hand.] Shulk Fiora! [Reyn attempts to grab the cases, but Fiora pulls them back.] Fiora I'm coming along as well. I'd feel better going with you boys than sitting at home worrying about you. [She sets off.] Fiora So, let's get moving! Reyn I knew she didn't trust me. Shulk Looks like it. [The two dejectedly walk off after her into Tephra Cave.] [Bionis area intro: Tephra Cave] [The trio set off through tunnels inhabited by various monsters before arriving at Mag Mell Ruins inside Tephra Cave.] Fiora Are these the Mag Mell Ruins? Reyn Haven't you been here before? Fiora Nope. Shulk The Defence Force often uses it for training. But I come here to do research. It's not really a place that people go. Reyn Not surprising. There are monsters around here that use Mechon parts as armour. Fiora Was this built by the Mechon? Shulk I don't think so. There's a path for people to get in. It might have been a vehicle of some kind. Reyn Like the Defence Force hover transports? Fiora A vehicle? But it's so big... Shulk It's amazing technology. I wonder what kind of people made it. Reyn I ain't got a clue. Shulk Let's keep moving. The Ether Cylinders are up ahead. Reyn Right! [The party soon emerge from Tephra Cave at the Cylinder Hangar high above Colony 9.] Reyn Right here! Thanks for the help, Shulk. I'll start collecting them up. You two hold on a sec. [Reyn begins collecting the cylinders as Fiora looks around.] Fiora It's full of Ether Cylinders... Hey, why do we have to come all the way here to get them? Isn't there an Ether Cylinder fuelling station in the colony? Shulk Well. Refining the ether takes a long time down there, and sometimes cylinderisation fails. And there are so many cylinders here for us already. It's more reliable than making them ourselves. Reyn Right. And Colony 9's Anti-Air Batteries and mobile artillery are standardised for these cylinders, so they can be used straight away. Fiora I see. You know, this place is in good condition considering it's ancient. Shulk It might be... That there's some form of technology being used to preserve it. It's just a shame we don't understand its secret. Fiora Shulk...? Shulk But I'll solve it one day and show you. If it's just technology that someone created in the past, it's not incomprehensible. We'll come to understand it one day. [Shulk starts to reach for some Ether Cylinders himself.] Reyn Don't go trying too hard. We can come and get Ether Cylinders whenever we need them. Besides, it's a good place for Defence Force training. Fiora Yeah, so good that you didn't even want to come here without Shulk to back you up! Anyway, did you collect the cylinders? Reyn Yep. All done. Thanks. Fiora Just come by yourself from now on. Shulk Shh, be quiet... [Shulk and the others turn to see two Ancient Machines descend from an opening in the ceiling. Fiora gasps.] Fiora Are they Mechon? Shulk I don't know! But it looks like we'll have to destroy them! [The party carefully draw their weapons.] Reyn In that case, just leave them to me! [After dismantling the machines, Shulk turns to Fiora.] Shulk Fiora, are you OK?! Fiora I'm fine. How about you? Shulk I'm all right. Thanks to you and Reyn. Reyn What on Bionis were those?! I've never seen anything like them. Fiora Could they have been Mechon? Shulk No. I think they were something left by the civilisation that built this vehicle. Reyn They didn't seem like Mechon to me. But why did they only show up now? Shulk I don't know. But they were probably built to protect this place. They might have been activated in response to something... But I don't think that something could have been us. Fiora Please, let's go back. I don't wanna be here anymore. Shulk Me neither. And we've already got the Ether Cylinders. [A noise from outside gets their attention.] Reyn What's going on?! Fiora Listen. What is that? Shulk That sound... [The three run outside the hangar.] Shulk In the sky! [A large Mechon flies in over the colony, followed by a whole swarm of Mechon.] Shulk It's a...! Fiora This can't be! Reyn No way! [A Mechon carrier transports a squadron of inactive Mechon, coming in to raid the colony.] Shulk Mechon! Fiora How? [Mechon transports begin disgorging their passengers, which drop towards the colony below.] Fiora Didn't my brother destroy them all a year ago? Shulk Could that defence mechanism have responded to the Mechon? Reyn Let's get back to the colony! Shulk Come on! [The three take off at a rush.] [A siren sounds throughout Colony 9 as residents begin to take notice.] Kenny Rohan Hey! This siren... It sounds different! Sesame Yeah. Isn't this Siren 2? Defence Force Soldier It can't be. The Mechon?! [The colony residents gasp in realisation and then start screaming as the Mechon fly in. One particularly large Mechon soars ahead of the rest.] Defence Force Soldier [V.O.] One Large Mechon! Ten carriers! And an unknown number of units emerging from the carriers! [Colonel Vangarre stands at a hover transport receiving this report via radio.] Vangarre You idiots! Why didn't you see this lot until they were right on top of us?! Defence Force Soldier [V.O.] But Sir! We thought the Mechon had all been wiped ou- [A Mechon attack blasts the Anti-Air Battery where the soldier had been radioing from. He screams as the place blows up; Vangarre is now unable to reach him.] Vangarre Oi! What's happening?! Respond! [He slams the radio against the transport in frustration before looking up at the smoking structure; he speaks into his radio again.] Vangarre Anti-Air Batteries 1 to 3! Why aren't my targeting systems online? Don't let a single one into the colony! [Vangarre then grabs a soldier trying to run past by the collar.] Vangarre Assemble everyone who can fight! Evacuate the civilians to the shelter! Get a move on! [View of an Anti-Air Battery taking aim.] Defence Force Soldier [O.C.] Fire at will! [Anti-Air Batteries open fire as Mechon carriers continue to drop Mechon into the battle. Some of the Mechon are destroyed by the incoming fire. One large black Mechon is engulfed in a particularly spectacular explosion.] Defence Force Soldier [O.C.] We got it! [As the smoke begins to clear...] Defence Force Soldier [O.C.] No, wait! What the...?! Our weapons don't work on them at all! [This large Mechon emerges from the smoke unscathed and begins to unfold itself, revealing a hideous mechanical face. Vangarre and the other soldiers on the ground are dumbfounded.] Defence Force Soldier What type of Mechon is that?! I've never seen one like it! [Colonel Vangarre holds the radio, staring at their new enemy, then quickly barks orders into his device.] Vangarre You slackers, fire! Shoot it down! [The Anti-Air Battery continues to fire, but it has no effect on the faced Mechon, which then slices the structure all the way down to its foundation and then flies away as the edifice explodes. Screams are heard from within.] [Elsewhere, Mechon begin to land in the Commercial District, causing the residents to scream and flee. Inside his house nearby, Dunban struggles out of bed and to the stairs.] [Outside, the Mechon are hauling people out of shops and off the streets with their pincers. Shulk, Reyn and Fiora run to the Main Entrance to see another resident similarly taken.] Shulk They're eating people! Fiora It's horrible... [Shulk looks towards Dunban's House.] Shulk Is Dunban OK?! Reyn Fiora! Go and check on him! Fiora OK! [She runs off towards the house. As she goes, a Mechon M63 confronts the two boys left behind.] Shulk Heads up, Reyn! Reyn If this thing wants a fight, let's give it one! [Shulk and Reyn successfully defeat the Mechon unit.] Reyn See? Didn't stand a chance! Shulk It's not that easy! We've disabled it, but only for now. It'll reactivate soon! [Fiora runs out of Dunban's House to the two boys.] Shulk Where's Dunban? Fiora He's gone! I can't find him anywhere. Reyn What?! He ain't fit enough to face these things! Shulk Reyn! Let's get to the lab! Reyn The lab? Of course! The Monado's there! Shulk Exactly. The Monado can take out Mechon. [The three rush off up the street. As they arrive at the Military District, they find the place already in flames.] Vangarre You blasted Mechon! You think you can do what you want in our colony! Reyn The colonel! The guys! [A line of Mechon threaten to overwhelm the Defence Force's line. The soldiers are already beginning to retreat.] Vangarre Men! Don't give up this position! Run, and I'll kill you myself! [The black metal-faced Mechon appears behind Vangarre, who turns his head to see it and laughs.] Vangarre What the hell are you? A Mechon with a face?! [Metal Face leers silently at Vangarre.] Vangarre Grin at me, will you? [Vangarre fires at Metal Face point-blank, but the only effect is the colonel being blown backwards to the ground. The Face continues advancing unhindered.] Vangarre What?! Didn't even dent it! [A smaller Mechon attempts to grab the colonel with its pincers, which Vangarre uses his rifle to block. As the two struggle, another pair of Mechon enter a hover transport, which Metal Face then picks up with one clawed hand and, after the two Mechon have emerged, tosses deep into the Military District, causing a massive explosion. Metal Face then takes off to another part of the colony.] [In the aftermath, Shulk's party arrive at the entrance to the lab and find a large pile of debris blocking their way as they react to the carnage they've just witnessed.] Reyn The colonel... The guys... I'm gonna destroy every last one of those damn Mechon! Fiora Shulk! The entrance! Reyn No! We'll never get in there now... Shulk Wait... Let me think here... [Shulk thinks for a moment, and then...] Shulk Reyn, Fiora! There's still the mobile artillery! Reyn Right! If we recharge it with those Ether Cylinders we collected, we can blast our way in! Fiora It's in the Residential District! Shulk Great! Reyn All right! This is it! Time to avenge the colonel and the boys! [As the three run out of the Military District, they are intercepted by a group of Mechon at the Central Plaza.] Reyn What the? Fiora Shulk! More from behind! [The three are now surrounded. They draw their weapons.] Shulk Reyn! Looks like you and I will have to cut a path through them. Reyn Looks like it. Shulk Fiora! Reyn and I will open up a path. Then you can run through. Fiora You two can't do this by yourselves! I wanna fight as well! Shulk Get through! We'll be right behind you! Fiora But Shulk... Reyn A year ago, Dunban and the Defence Force fought hard to protect the colony and all of us Homs. Now it's our turn to repay them! Shulk Please, Fiora. [One Mechon begins to attack, but Shulk and Reyn fight it off.] Fiora Shulk... Reyn... Reyn Don't look so worried. We'll just get rid of these ones. Shulk won't get a scratch! Fiora OK. I believe you. Shulk Go now, Fiora! [Fiora begins to run off.] Fiora Reyn! Reyn Huh? Fiora You take care too! Reyn Of course! [She takes off down the street.] Reyn Looks like she trusts me after all! Shulk I told you. [After taking down some more Mechon, Shulk and Reyn are back to back.] Shulk That was a close one. Reyn You were never cut out for this stuff. You go. I'll take care of things here. Shulk You're too out of breath to persuade me. Reyn Tell me about it. [The top part of the pillar at the Central Plaza, damaged from the Mechon assault, falls down to where Shulk and Reyn are, forcing the two to split up and get out of the way. Shulk recovers to find Reyn under attack by Mechon.] Shulk Reyn, behind you! [The Mechon attacks, and Reyn is barely able to stop its pincers. Shulk runs up to help.] Reyn Get outta here, Shulk! [Shulk whacks futilely against the Mechon's outer shell.] Shulk Don't be stupid! [More Mechon start to arrive.] Shulk Hold on! [Just then, the two hear someone else coming, and Dunban rushes in with the Monado, slashing at Mechon as he comes, and sending the Mechon attacking Reyn hurtling through the air. His entrance is followed by a string of explosions rippling through all the Mechon at the plaza that he has just slashed.] Shulk The Monado! [Dunban is breathing hard but still standing. He turns to the other two.] Dunban Sorry I kept you waiting. Shulk Dunban! Reyn Whoa yeah! The Monado! So this is why you weren't at home. I thought so! This is what I was waiting to see! [More Mechon approach the three friends.] Dunban Ready, lads? [With Dunban's help, the group proceed to destroy the Mechon.] Reyn Nice one, Dunban! You didn't waste any time on them Mechon! Dunban Shulk! Where's Fiora?! Shulk The Residential District... We said we'd meet her there. [Reyn turns towards the fallen pillar now blocking the bridge to the Residential District.] Reyn Looks like we'll have to take the long way round. Dunban All right, then we cut through the Commercial District! Shulk Yes! [Meanwhile, Fiora rushes into the Residential District, still carrying a cylinder case, and looks back as the pillar back at Central Plaza falls. She then takes note of the mobile artillery sitting inert in the street.] [Shortly, as Shulk, Reyn and Dunban exit the Commercial District, Dunban collapses in agony, no longer able to bear the Monado, which skitters along the bridge and deactivates. The other two hurry over to him.] Reyn Dunban! You can't take any more of the Monado! Dunban But I must! I don't have a choice! [Dunban stretches out his hand to reach for the sword but instead coughs up blood on the ground.] Shulk Reyn's right. You can't go on like this. Dunban Shulk! Shulk Dunban. [Shulk sees Mechon approaching from across the bridge - and he rushes for the Monado. Shulk picks up the weapon and activates it.] Shulk This time... It's my turn. Dunban Shulk, no! It'll kill you! Shulk! [Shulk at first struggles with the Monado, but then seems to master himself and charges at the enemy, yelling. As he does, the screen flashes to white as time slows down to a crawl.] Shulk What's happening? [One Mechon sends an energy blast that knocks Shulk backwards. But back in the present it hasn't happened yet, so Shulk dodges the attack with ease.] Dunban What the?! [The attack then strikes a wall behind Reyn and Dunban, causing a massive explosion in the background. Shulk proceeds to destroy that Mechon. As another Mechon attacks, Shulk sees its movements in the future and deftly evades them, soon cutting the Mechon down.] Reyn Wow. Shulk's pretty awesome! Dunban How can this be? Shulk is using the Monado. Shulk What was that? Reyn Shulk! More company! Dunban Reyn! [Both Reyn and Dunban rise to their feet.] Reyn Right! [Dunban, now wielding a Homs Sabre, beats off a Mechon that had been advancing towards Shulk.] Shulk Reyn! Dunban! [Shulk and Reyn begin hacking away at more Mechon.] Reyn I got your back! Dunban Shulk, do you feel all right? Shulk I'm OK. But there was something strange. Just now, it was as if I could see into the future. Is this another power of the Monado? Reyn See into the future? What are ya saying? Dunban Are you certain? Shulk! Shulk Yes. Dunban I see. I remember Dickson saying that the Monado had a hidden power. Could this be it? Shulk What? [The three run to meet more Mechon.] Dunban Don't think about it now! Just believe what the Monado showed you and fight! Shulk Got it! [The party fight off this latest wave of Mechon as they emerge from the bridge. They then rush into the Residential District. As they arrive, however, the huge black Mechon with the metal face becomes an obstacle in their path.] Reyn It's massive. Dunban That Mechon... It has a face?! Reyn That don't mean nothin'! Shulk That's right! Not when we have the Monado! [The three engage Metal Face in battle, but their weapons are ineffective, even the Monado.] Shulk The Monado! It's not working! Reyn Oi! What d'ya mean?! Dunban How can that be? The Monado should cut through Mechon with ease! [Shulk notices a blue light on the back of Metal Face's frame.] Shulk What is that light? Other Mechon don't have that. Could... Could that light be why the Monado has no effect? Dunban Shulk! Reyn! Get down! [Dunban pulls the other two away just before Metal Face's claws strike the ground where they had been.] Dunban Stay back! I'll take it from here! Reyn No! You can't take any more! [But Dunban has taken off, and Reyn goes after him. Metal Face simply knocks them both back with its clawed hand. The Mechon then comes over and does the same to Shulk. Metal Face is about to go in for the kill when, out of nowhere, the Mechon is hit with a heavy blast that practically knocks it to the ground. It is soon shown that the attack has come from the mobile artillery - piloted by Fiora.] Fiora Everyone. Get away, right now! Dunban Fiora! [Fiora's artillery tears through Mechon as she approaches Metal Face. As she charges ahead, Shulk's eyes glow blue as a vision comes to him: An attack from Metal Face blasts Fiora's artillery into pieces, crippling the vehicle. While Fiora is trapped inside, Metal Face comes over and stabs her with its claws. Back in the present, Shulk is still on the ground and coming to grips with what he's just been shown.] Shulk What did I just... Fiora! Get back! [Fiora's vehicle continues to advance.] Fiora I won't let you hurt any more people! We will save Colony 9! [Fiora activates the artillery's cannons, opening fire on Metal Face. They have no effect. Metal Face generates a ball of blue light, which it then fires at Fiora, blowing the cannon off the vehicle as Fiora yelps in fright. She then opens fire with the other cannon, concentrating fire on Metal Face.] Shulk Fiora! Get out of here! Run! Fiora You want more?! [She then shoves the foremost cannon right in the Mechon's face, covering it. With a grunt of concentration, she lets loose a tremendous blast that blows her artillery and Metal Face backwards. Her artillery falls on its side, now inoperable. Fiora then sees Metal Face emerge from the smoke, unharmed except for some superficial damage to its faceplate. It marches towards her.] Fiora How? [Metal Face then lifts the artillery so that it is eye to eye with Fiora; she whimpers, losing hope. The Mechon then slams the mobile artillery against a nearby house, smashing the vehicle into pieces as Fiora cries out in fear.] Shulk Fiora! [Both Shulk and Dunban are still on the ground, helpless to intervene as Metal Face approaches the fallen mobile artillery with Fiora trapped inside. Shulk screams in horror.] Shulk No! [Metal Face plunges its claws into the vehicle, and Fiora's screams are cut short. Shulk and Dunban can only look on, horrified. As Shulk struggles to rise, Metal Face casually tosses Fiora's artillery over its shoulder, allowing other Mechon behind it to converge on the vehicle. Shulk, now on his feet, sees Fiora's blood coating Metal Face's claws.] Shulk I'll kill you! [Shulk attempts to fight Metal Face, and his two companions join him. But the battle is just as futile as before. Shulk uses the Monado to keep Metal Face's claws at bay, then climbs up its arm and charges towards its faceplate, the Monado drawn.] Shulk Die! [The Monado's blade is embedded in Metal Face's head, but the Mechon simply swats Shulk and his weapon to the ground. Reyn runs over to him.] Reyn Shulk! [Metal Face's red eyes flash, as though sending a signal to the other Mechon. The Face then takes a moment to stare at Dunban before rising into the sky and joining the rest of the retreating Mechon.] Reyn Get back here! [But the three are left alone in the burning colony.] Shulk No! [A new day dawns, and there is calm. The colony is in disarray, but the damage is salvageable. Birds are singing as Shulk sits alone at Outlook Park.] Shulk Fiora... [Flashback to Shulk and Fiora at Outlook Park before the Mechon assault.] Fiora The breeze feels so good. Shulk Yeah. I'd forgotten what it feels like. I never thought it could be so quiet here. Fiora You're spending too much time with Reyn. You're getting used to all the noise he makes. Shulk Yeah, maybe. [The two share a laugh.] Fiora It's so peaceful. You know, Shulk, I hope every day can be like this, always. [Back to the present. Reyn comes over to Shulk at the park.] Reyn Hey. [The two are standing, looking out over the colony.] Reyn Have you been to see Dunban? Shulk Yeah. Reyn I just can't do it. You got more guts than me. Shulk Not at all. It was him that consoled me. Reyn I guess that's the type of guy he is. Shulk Yeah. Even without the Monado, he's the strongest person I know. [Flashback to Shulk at Dunban's House in the aftermath of the attack.] Shulk Uh... Dunban Shulk. How are you holding up? Shulk I'm fine. But...you... Dunban I will shed no tears. Shulk Huh? Dunban A year ago, I felt the same sense of deep loss that I do now. Shulk The Battle of Sword Valley. Dunban After that battle, many of my friends did not make it home. While I was being brought here on that stretcher, they were all I thought about. [Shulk makes a sympathetic noise.] Dunban But I decided I would not cry. Everyone who died in that war had something they wanted to protect. Family, friends, loved ones, their home... So they fought to protect them. And we won. [A view of Dunban's portrait of himself with Mumkhar and Dickson.] Dunban No matter how painful, no matter how hard, it's nothing to be sad about... I decided that there and then. Shulk Dunban! Dunban Shulk, Fiora would tell you the same thing. [Shulk inhales sharply.] Dunban She wanted to protect us. Or rather, she wanted to protect you. And you're alive now. So I will not cry. Shulk OK. Dunban Remember the gift of life that Fiora gave you, and treasure it. Shulk I...I can't say that I understand. But...I hope to, some day. Dunban That is all I ask. Believe me, I am always just trying to understand. [Back to the present.] Reyn 'Treasure the gift of life that Fiora gave you.' He's one of a kind, that Dunban. Shulk I've made a decision. Reyn Huh? Shulk My purpose in life - I will pursue that faced Mechon. Reyn Shulk... Shulk They attacked our colony, killed Fiora. I will find that Mechon - find it and destroy it. Destroy them all! [Reyn laughs at this.] Shulk What are you laughing at? Reyn Sorry, sorry! It's just a bit weird. I never thought you'd be the one to say it! Shulk So you agree? Reyn 'Course, man. I'm just surprised you came out with it first! Shulk You thought I'd try and talk you out of it! 'That's not what Fiora would want!' That sound right? Reyn Yeah. Something like that. I thought you'd give me a hard time. Shulk In my head, there are two versions of me. One of them is saying that. It's telling me, 'Listen to what Dunban said.' Reyn What about the other one? Shulk It keeps shouting, 'Make them pay!' 'Destroy every single one of them!' And it won't stop getting louder. Reyn That doesn't sound like you. Sure it ain't my voice in there? Shulk Might be! It's a bit of a loudmouth! Reyn There you go then! [The two laugh together.] Reyn So when are we heading off? Shulk Right now. Reyn Perfect. [Shulk and Reyn leave Colony 9's Commercial District via the Main Entrance.] Reyn Right then. Shulk Yeah. [From his house across the bridge, Dunban watches the two depart.] Dunban Look after yourselves, boys. [He grabs his injured arm.] Dunban As soon as this heals, I'll be right behind you. And then we will seize our destiny. Together. [A view of Dickson listening in from around the corner.]  - Fourteen Years Ago - [A group of explorers brave a blizzard through a snowy mountain terrain; a child is among them. Together the team enter an ice-ridden tower. After they enter, a blue beam of light is emitted from the base of the tower outside.] [Later, after the blizzard, Dickson struggles through the snow, breathing hard, and opens the doors of the tower. He cries out as he discovers the whole team dead. Dickson finds only one survivor - the small boy, who is asleep at the foot of the altar where the Monado is held. Dickson takes the boy and then exits the tower.] [Back in the present, Shulk and Reyn embark on their new journey, but not before Shulk stops just outside Colony 9.] Shulk It's all very well going after that metal-faced Mechon. But shouldn't we have some kind of plan? Reyn How about checking out Colony 6? Shulk Colony 6... The only other Homs colony left. Reyn Colony 6 is on the way to Sword Valley, where there's supposed to be a Mechon base. If that's where they came from, maybe the people in Colony 6 saw something. Shulk Good point. They might even know something about that metal-faced Mechon. So we go past the Mag Mell Ruins and up through Tephra Cave. Then we should arrive at the Bionis' knee. Reyn Yeah. And if we can get to the knee, it ain't far to Colony 6, right? Shulk Sounds like a plan! Let's head to Colony 6. [Later, at Mag Mell Ruins in Tephra Cave, Shulk and Reyn arrive at a green-lit door that had previously been lit red.] Shulk This door... It was closed when we came past before, but it's open now. Reyn Maybe it was programmed to open up in case of Mechon emergency. The way to the Bionis' knee is just ahead. You ready? Shulk Yeah, let's go. [Farther along this new route, outside the Escape Pod Bay, Shulk pauses at an ether lamp.] Shulk An ether lamp. Reyn Don't traders use these things as guideposts? Shulk Yeah. We can follow them to the Bionis' knee. Reyn OK. But if armed traders need guideposts, it must be pretty dangerous in here. Let's keep our wits about us. Shulk Definitely. [Later, at one of the cave's pools, Shulk and Reyn come across the bodies of numerous dead traders.] Shulk What the...? Reyn Look at the emblem. They're traders from Colony 6. No wonder it's been so long since the last delivery. Shulk Reyn, their injuries... Reyn They weren't made by no Mechon. It was probably the monsters that live here. Man, that's grim. I don't wanna go like this. Not even killed by Mechon, just some monsters in a cave. Shulk They probably had families...children... Reyn Maybe. It wouldn't surprise me. But why do you say that? Shulk No reason. Reyn, shouldn't we return them to the Bionis? Reyn Oh, right. What's born from the Bionis is returned to the Bionis. That's the way of the Homs. [The two perform this duty for the deceased traders, pausing at the pool when they're finished.] Reyn That was way harder than I thought it'd be. I'm just about ready to collapse! Shulk Let's take a rest. If the monsters in here killed all these traders, we need to be at our best. I'm wide awake, so I'll take first watch. Reyn Thanks, man. The nap'll do me good. [Some time later, Shulk is sitting by a fire as Reyn comes up to him.] Reyn Shulk. My turn. Shulk Awake already? Reyn Didn't sleep a wink. And I still feel like I just did one of Vangarre's drills! Shulk Heh. Reyn Hey... Why do you think the Mechon attacked? Are we just food to them? Or, what, did we do something wrong? Sort of reminds me of the battle between the Bionis and the Mechonis. I wonder if it's anything to do with that? Shulk Well... It's hard to believe that living things are just a source of energy for machines. There has to be another reason. Reyn The Mechon killed Fiora. Shulk Yeah. Reyn You know what? I'll never forgive 'em. I don't care what their reason is. Shulk Hmm. When it happened, the Monado showed me that Fiora was in danger. But I couldn't save her. Reyn It's not your fault. Just 'cos the Monado showed you some future, that don't mean you could do anything about it. You did great. You fought them off. I couldn't have done that. [Reyn sits down.] Reyn You know, I've been thinking about it. Why you can use the Monado, I mean. Dickson told me. You're a survivor from the Monado expedition team that went out 14 years ago. There was a blizzard or something and your mum and dad died. And then Dickson found you and brought you back. Shulk That sounds right. I was pretty young, so I don't really remember anything. Reyn Is that why you do it? Why you're always helping Dickson with his research and trying to figure out the Monado? Shulk Maybe. Part of me does see it as something to remind me of my mum and dad. But mainly, if it really is the sword that the Bionis used to kill the Mechonis, like in the legend... I want to work out its secret. That's the real reason. [Reyn has stood up and come around the fire to face Shulk.] Reyn I've got it! You were chosen. By the Monado. Shulk What? Chosen? Reyn Don't you see? Not even Dunban can handle it. It ain't chance that you can and he can't. [Shulk makes a skeptical sound.] Reyn I'll take the next watch. You get some rest. Shulk OK, I'll try. [Shulk walks off as Reyn prepares for his watch.] Shulk Night, Reyn. [In a hazy dream world, Shulk finds himself at the top of a dark tower. There is someone else with him on the other side of the haze; this unfamiliar person addresses Shulk.] ??? Do you wish to change it? [Shulk makes a questioning sound.] ??? The future. [Shulk huffs but doesn't have an answer.] ??? It is every man's desire to change the future. Is that not so? Even if everything has been predestined, will you not oppose it? Shulk I... ??? The Monado is now in your hands. The Monado will grow with you. If you can find the True Monado the future is yours. Shulk The True Monado? [The mysterious young man waves farewell as Shulk suddenly hears Reyn's voice.] Reyn Shulk! Shulk! [In a vision, Shulk sees Reyn surrounded by Arachno monsters.] Shulk Reyn! [As Reyn is surrounded by Soldier Arachnos, the Arachno Queen comes up from behind and attacks him.] Reyn Shulk! Shulk! [The Arachno Queen strikes the killing blow right as Shulk is jolted awake.] Shulk Reyn! [Shulk gets to his feet to find Reyn and himself surrounded by all the Arachnos from his dream.] Reyn What're ya playing at?! Give us a hand! [Shulk activates the Monado, and together the pair eradicate the monsters.] Shulk I'm sorry, Reyn. Reyn Don't worry about it. It looked like you were having a nightmare! Shulk Really? ??? [V.O.] The Monado is now in your hands. The Monado will grow with you. If you can find the True Monado, the future is yours. Shulk The True Monado? Was I dreaming? Reyn What's with you? We'd better get a move on. [As Reyn makes to depart, Shulk gets another vision of Reyn surrounded by Arachnos, then being killed by the Arachno Queen.] Shulk [inwardly] It wasn't a dream. Was it a vision? What should I do? I could tell Reyn. But... I don't know... [Deeper within Tephra Cave, Shulk and Reyn come across a pair of Pods.] Reyn What on Bionis are those? Shulk Monsters' egg sacs...I think... But it looks like there are Mechon parts inside as well. Reyn Man... What kind of monsters are they? Shulk Probably some type of Arachno... [Shulk sees another vision of Reyn being slain by the Arachno Queen. He gasps as he returns to the present.] Shulk Reyn! Get back! [But Reyn quickly becomes trapped in an Arachno web.] Reyn Argh! Urgh! Ahh! [He is then taken up through the ceiling of the cave.] Shulk Reyn! No! If that vision comes true, then Reyn...! I've gotta find him! [Shulk reaches Vilia Lake, where he sees Reyn on an upper level of the cave, running away from a small group of Arachnos.] Reyn You things just don't give up, do ya? Shulk Reyn! [Shulk surveys the terrain in front of him and sees some ivy growing on a pillar in the underground lake.] Shulk I've gotta hurry. If I can get up there, I should be able to reach him. [Soon, elsewhere in the cave, Reyn continues to run.] Reyn Shulk! Where are ya?! [Shulk is running along nearby.] Shulk Reyn! [Shulk finds Reyn in the Arachno Queen's Nest, surrounded by Arachnos.] Shulk Reyn! Reyn There's too many of 'em! I kill one, and ten more pop up! [Reyn runs towards some nearby ivy.] Shulk Reyn! No! [Shulk begins to chase after Reyn.] Shulk Not that way! Reyn! Reyn Shulk! [The Arachno Queen descends upon Reyn just like in Shulk's vision.] Shulk Reyn! [The Monado then glows with a strange yellow light, which Shulk uses to cast a Shield around Reyn, blocking the Arachno Queen's fatal blow.] Reyn What's this?! Shulk The power of the Monado?! [The Monado's blade returns to its usual blue light as the Arachno Queen advances on Shulk.] Reyn Look out! [Reyn, still protected by Monado Shield, runs in front of Shulk, taking the Queen's attack meant for Shulk.] Shulk Reyn! [Reyn then shoves the massive Arachno off of him.] Reyn Glad one of us figured out these things would try an ambush. [Reyn readies his weapon.] Reyn Let's do this, Shulk! Shulk Right! [Shulk and Reyn eventually destroy the Arachno Queen and her Soldier Arachnos.] Reyn Looks like the Monado works on more than just Mechon. I gotta say, that's pretty awesome! Shulk Reyn... I just realised something. Reyn Huh? Shulk The future I see... It isn't set. I think it's more like a warning. Reyn A warning? Shulk Yeah... A warning about what will happen. What will happen if I don't do anything, or if I can't do anything. So I can use this power to change the future. And that's exactly what I intend to do. Reyn You've got my vote. And if you really can do that... I think Fiora would have liked it too. Shulk Yeah. Reyn Right, let's get moving. We're nearly at the Bionis' knee. [Shulk and Reyn emerge from Tephra Cave on Kneecap Hill and find a picturesque view of Bionis and Mechonis, both looming far overhead.] Shulk Wow! Reyn No matter how many times I see this, I never get used to it. [The pair turn to face the Mechonis.] Shulk On the other side of those clouds... Reyn Yep. It's our enemy. Mechonis. [Shulk clinches his fist.] Shulk Our enemy... [Meanwhile, a Mechon scout unit has spotted the two. It flies off into the distance and communicates its findings with a faced Mechon. This Mechon proceeds to pick up a lifeless Defence Force soldier, toss him up and then eat him.] [Shulk and Reyn are on Kneecap Hill, pondering their next move.] Reyn If we just came up the Bionis' shin... Shulk Then this must be its kneecap, right? Reyn Yup. Which means Colony 6 is up ahead! [The two spot some ivy growing on the rock face nearby.] Shulk Looks like we can climb up there. Reyn Great! I love a good climb. [They both make the short climb up and continue on through Leg Pass onto the Ragrinar Canyon Path.] [Bionis area intro: Bionis' Leg] [Upon arriving at the wide, grassy fields of Gaur Plain, the two see smoke in the distance.] Reyn Shulk! Look over there. Shulk Smoke... Reyn Maybe someone's got a fire going. Hope they're cooking up something good! Shulk It's hardly a good spot for a barbecue! Come on, let's take a look. [Approaching closer, the two discover that an abandoned buggy is the source of the smoke.] Reyn Someone's left a buggy out here. Shulk That's strange. Who would just abandon a buggy in this place? And it's pretty new. Reyn Is it brand new? Shulk Not brand new. But it's in very good condition. You wouldn't just abandon it. So what did happen to the driver? [Shulk reaches out his hand to the buggy, then sees a vision of a teenaged boy being chased by a pair of Berserk Ardun. After the vision, Shulk turns to Reyn with urgency.] Shulk There's a boy! He's being attacked by monsters! Reyn You saw it happening? Where? Shulk I don't know! But it was near some water. Reyn Near water... But what made you have a vision all of a sudden? Shulk Maybe it was triggered by touching the buggy. Reyn Well, we'd better find him. Let's search everywhere round here where there's water! Shulk OK! [Shulk and Reyn seem to have found their quarry when their search takes them to Rho Oasis.] Reyn Shulk! Over there! [The boy is on the ground and at the mercy of the two Ardun.] ??? Arghhhh! [Shulk and Reyn run in.] Reyn You all right, kid? ??? Who are you? Reyn That can wait. Go! Get outta here! Leave these guys to us. ??? OK! [The boy gets to his feet and dashes off.] Shulk Let's do this! Reyn Ready when you are! [After killing both Berserk Ardun, Shulk and Reyn meet the boy at his buggy. Shulk gives it a quick fix.] Shulk OK. It should work now. ??? Great. You saved my skin! My buggy short-circuited, and then there were those monsters, and... Well, thanks! Shulk I fixed the circuit, but it's out of ether. Change the cylinder and it'll be as good as new. Reyn I think it's time for the introductions. I'm Reyn. He's Shulk. Shulk Pleased to meet you. ??? Oh... Hi! I'm Juju. [Juju hesitates for a moment.] Juju Where are you two heading? If you've got time, you should come back to our camp! Shulk Your camp? Juju Yeah. It's not far. Reyn How about it? Shulk Let's take him up on the offer. I'm surprised there's a Homs camp here, but they might have some information. Reyn I suppose. Shulk Juju, can you tell us how to get there? Juju Sure! [The view shifts to Rho Oasis and beyond it, Kamos Guidepost.] Juju If you go back to the oasis, you should see a tall stone post. Head there first. [The view returns to the party.] Reyn Then what? [The view shifts closer to Kamos Guidepost, showing the woods and narrow valley beyond it.] Juju There's a small path in the woods next to the stone post. Just follow it down to our camp. [The view returns to the party again.] Reyn Got it. Now, let's make a move. [Shulk and Reyn head for the Refugee Camp on foot while Juju takes his buggy. Once there, a young woman spots Juju as he parks the buggy.] ??? Juju. Where have you been? [Shulk immediately sees a vision of Juju being held by a Mechon Tentacle as this same woman rushes towards the scene.] ??? Juju! [Then the woman is taken by a different Mechon Tentacle and screams. At the end of the vision is a faced Mechon. Back in the present, the woman scolds Juju.] ??? Don't tell me you were... [Juju hanging his head in shame tells her all she needs to know.] ??? I've told you a thousand times. We're not ready to leave the camp yet. Juju But I thought... ??? Juju! Juju Sorry, Sharla. [The woman, Sharla, then comes in close and leans her head against Juju's reassuringly, then turns her attention to Shulk and Reyn.] Sharla That gear. You must be survivors from the Defence Force! [She rushes up to Reyn.] Sharla Is Colony 6 OK? Did Gadolt make it?! Reyn Hold on. What're you talking about? Shulk We've come from Colony 9. Sharla Colony 9? Juju They saved me from some monsters. This is Reyn and Shulk. Sharla Oh, so you're not from Colony 6. [Sharla composes herself despite obvious disappointment.] Sharla Thank you for helping Juju. I'm his sister, Sharla. Juju I told them they could rest here with us. Sharla Did you now? Well, all right. I suppose that's only fair. Reyn Did something happen? To Colony 6? Shulk Actually, we're heading there ourselves. Sharla Colony 6 has been... Our home! It's been occupied by the Mechon. [Shulk and Reyn react in shock to this news.] Sharla I'll tell you about it inside. Follow me. [Shulk and Reyn follow Sharla and Juju into the cave where the refugees from Colony 6 have set up camp. Inside, they listen to what Sharla has to say.] Sharla We had already fought off the Mechon a year ago, at the Battle of Sword Valley. [Flashback to Colony 6 in its prime.] Sharla It left us with a false sense of security. The Colony 6 Defence Force didn't even notice the approaching Mechon. By the time the air-raid siren sounded, a swarm of Mechon had blackened the sky. They ate people and burned our buildings. Me and Juju dedicated ourselves to evacuating the children and elderly. [Back to the present in the Refugee Camp.] Sharla I don't know what happened next. Shulk It's just like what happened to Colony 9. Sharla They attacked your colony as well?! Shulk Yes. It's good that you managed to evacuate so many. Sharla We have Otharon...the Colonel... to thank for that. Him and Gadolt. Reyn This Gadolt... Sharla He would have been my husband by now if not for all this. [Reyn and Shulk are sobered by this news.] Sharla Cheer up, you two! Reyn Er... Sharla We can't lose hope just yet! I'm certain Gadolt and the other soldiers are alive. They're still fighting. I can feel it. Juju Erm... Shulk Hmm? Juju You're on your way to Colony 6, right? Reyn You bet! We're up for some revenge. I bet we can even get your colony back! Shulk There you go showing off again... Juju If anyone can do it, it's you two. Could...um... Could you take me with you to the colony?! Sharla Juju! The people here need us! How many times do I have to tell you? Juju But you heard. The Mechon attacked Colony 9! That means a load of them have left Colony 6 already! It has to! Sharla Even if that's true... No, especially if it's true! We cannot expose the camp to any more danger. Juju So you don't care what happens to the people in the colony?! How can you be so heartless? Are you that scared of the Mechon?! [Shulk then sees another vision of the tentacled Mechon in a rocky valley surrounded by flames. One tentacle holds Juju while another has Sharla; both siblings are lifeless. Then the faced Mechon approaches, and the vision ends.] Reyn Kid! Juju Reyn... Reyn You oughta know how Sharla feels. Watch your mouth and have some respect! [Juju hangs his head, dejected.] Juju I'll go and make dinner. [The boy walks off.] Reyn Maybe I was too hard on him. Shulk? Sharla Reyn, you really remind me of Gadolt when you get angry. Reyn I do? Sharla Gadolt's taken care of us ever since we were young. I always saw him as a big brother really, but he was more of a father to Juju... He'd call him 'kid' whenever he told him off, just like you did. Reyn I don't think I'm ready to be someone's old man just yet... [Reyn turns to Shulk, who's been conspicuously silent.] Reyn Shulk? Did it happen again? Shulk Yeah. Reyn You had another vision? [Just then, they hear the buggy's engines starting up.] Shulk Oh no! Sharla No! Juju! [The three hurry out of the cave into the clearing, but Juju's buggy is no longer there.] Sharla The buggy's gone! He's going to Colony 6 on his own! [Reyn and Shulk come up behind her.] Reyn Stupid kid! Shulk We have to hurry. Something bad's gonna happen. Reyn What did you see? Shulk A deep valley... Everything's engulfed in flames... There's a black shadow... It kills Juju. Reyn Is it the Mechon with the metal face? Shulk Yeah. Reyn Where does it happen? Is it near Colony 6? Shulk I'm not sure. I think so. Reyn Let's get after him, Shulk! [Shulk and Reyn begin to leave.] Sharla Hold on a second! What was all that about? [The three continue onwards a bit before stopping.] Reyn I know you won't believe this... but Shulk can see the future. Sharla The future? That's not possible. Shulk That's what I thought too. I still can't explain this. But that vision will come true unless we stop it. Sharla So you're telling me Juju's in danger? Reyn Believe it or don't believe it, that's your call. But I wouldn't be standing here if it weren't for Shulk's visions. Sharla Juju... OK. I can't say I believe you. But what have I got to lose? Reyn I like the way you think! Shulk Sharla, you're... Sharla What? Shulk No, nothing. Reyn What are you doing? Let's go and find Juju! Sharla When you talk like that you sound just like Gadolt! That's how I know it's not worth arguing. Reyn What am I, some kind of Gadolt substitute? [As the two continue on, Shulk is left alone with his thoughts.] Shulk [inwardly] That thing kills Sharla too. I saw it in the vision. But I can't stop her coming with us. I don't know how I can protect her. But I have to do it. I WILL change the future. [Shulk, Reyn and Sharla pause after leaving the Refugee Camp and coming near Kamos Guidepost.] Reyn Sharla, do you know which way Juju went? Sharla There are quite a few ways to get there from here, but he's in a buggy, so I think he'll take Raguel Bridge. [The view has panned in the direction of this bridge.] Shulk Raguel Bridge? [The view shifts to Raguel Bridge itself.] Sharla It's not far. It's a really old bridge. Built around the time Colony 9 was founded. [The view returns to the party at Kamos Guidepost.] Shulk OK. Let's make that our next stop. Reyn Sounds like a plan! Sharla, you stay back. Leave any monsters up to me and Shulk. Sharla What, you think I can't pull my weight in battle? I've got field experience as a medic. If you get hurt, I can use ether to patch you up. Reyn Nice! I'm always getting roughed up. You'll be a big help! [Meanwhile at Raguel Bridge, Juju is stranded after the buggy has crashed.] Juju Come on! Who put this barrier in the way? Now the front suspension's all twisted up! Looks like I have to walk it. They're all cowards. I'll show them all. [Juju sets off across the bridge. A short time later, the other three arrive.] Reyn Hey, Sharla! Look! Sharla It's Juju's buggy! [Touching the buggy, Shulk sees a vision of Juju alone in that same deep valley. Suddenly Mechon Tentacles break through the ground and attack him.] Juju What is that thing?! [The vision ends when a pincer at the end of a tentacle lunges at Juju, who cries out in distress.] Shulk Juju! Reyn What is it?! Shulk It's Juju! Sharla Shulk! Is he OK?! [Shulk hesitates.] Sharla Tell me! Shulk There's a Mechon... It's taken Juju! [Sharla makes a despairing noise.] Reyn When?! Shulk I'm not sure. But I don't think we've got much time. Sharla You said you saw a deep valley, didn't you? Shulk Yes. Sharla There's a place like that just up ahead. And it's even on the way to Colony 6. That must be the route Juju's taking. Reyn You sure? No other deep valleys round here? Sharla Not as far as I know. Reyn Well, Shulk? Shulk Let's move. That has to be where Juju is. [After crossing Raguel Bridge, Reyn halts.] Reyn Is this the place you were on about? Sharla This is it all right. At the end of the road there's a path to Colony 6. Shulk But there's no sign of Juju. If my vision was right, he should be around here somewhere. Sharla I'm sure he would have gone along this road. I just hope nothing's happened to him yet. [Reyn faces the nearby Windy Cave.] Reyn Any chance he went up that way? Sharla It's not safe around here. I doubt Juju would go off the beaten track if he could avoid it. Shulk Got it. We'll search along the road. [Shulk, Reyn and Sharla eventually arrive at Spiral Valley to find Juju already in the clutches of a tentacled Mechon, crying out for help.] Sharla Juju! [Sharla outruns the two boys and rushes up alone.] Sharla Juju! Hold on, I'm coming! Shulk Wait! Sharla! [Shulk is in a vision where he sees a Mechon Tentacle spring forth from the ground, knocking Sharla high into the air.] Sharla Juju! [She screams in despair as the pincer grabs her in mid-air. Back in the present, the Monado activates, showing a new symbol.] Shulk Another new symbol's appeared on the Monado! Can I save her? ??? [V.O.] Of course you can. [Shulk runs forward and uses the Monado to send a shockwave across the rocky platform. Sharla now glows blue as she puts on a burst of Speed and outruns the Mechon Tentacle attack. She is astonished to turn around and see not only the tentacle but that Shulk has already bisected it with his blade.] Sharla Shulk?! [Shulk and Reyn rush to Sharla's side.] Shulk Its tentacles could come out from under the ground at any second. One false move and you're done for. Wait for my order! Reyn, you got my back? Reyn 'Course! Leave it to me! [Shulk rushes at the Mechon. In a vision, more tentacles attack, and one also shoots a burst of fire at him. Back in the present, he slashes the attacking tentacles, dodges the incoming fire and finally slices through the firing Mechon pincer. Reyn, also buffed by Monado Speed, dashes past numerous tentacles coming from the ground, as does Sharla, shooting at the tentacles with her rifle. She stands back to back with Shulk.] Sharla Amazing! I didn't know you could do that! Shulk It's not me. It's the power of the Monado. [Reyn comes in to join them.] Reyn That's right. And the light swirling around us... That's the Monado 'n' all. Sharla! Let's move! [The three turn to face the Mechon M71 together.] [After subduing the tentacled Mechon in battle, the three are winded.] Reyn Is it down?! [But the Mechon M71, still holding Juju, uses its tentacles to grab the rocky overhang and pull itself up on top of the platform above.] Reyn Get back here! Shulk It's up there! Let's go after it! Reyn Right! [The three give chase and engage the machine in another fight. Near the battle's end, Shulk slices yet another Mechon Tentacle with the Monado.] Shulk Reyn! [Reyn runs in, leaps and grabs Juju out of the Mechon's pincer as the Mechon bursts apart, destroyed at last. Sharla runs towards them.] Sharla Juju! Are you all right?! Juju Sharla... I'm sorry. [As Juju gets to his feet, Sharla first slaps him, then embraces him.] Sharla I'm so glad you're OK. Reyn Hey! Looks like we changed the future! [But Shulk doesn't respond.] Reyn What's up? Shulk Well, it's just that... That can't have been the Mechon from my vision. Reyn Yeah, weren't it supposed to be that one with the face. I guess we changed more than we expected! Shulk? Shulk No. Something's not right. [Just then, a large Mechon appears overhead. Sharla gasps and holds Juju close to her.] Sharla Juju! [The mysterious Mechon unfolds itself and lands, revealing that it has a face. But this one is a bronze-faced Mechon, not the black metal-faced one from the attack on Colony 9.] Shulk No! It's not him at all! Reyn But this one's got a face 'n' all! Mysterious Face I've been waiting for you, Monado boy. [Shulk and Reyn recoil at the words.] Shulk What? It spoke! [The Face steps in, prompting the two to move backwards.] Mysterious Face The way Metal Face scarpered I thought you'd have to be this big scary monster. But look. You're just some pathetic little kid! [The Face wields its massive hammer and prepares for battle.] [The fight against the Mysterious Face does not go well. The Mechon rounds on Juju and grabs him with its metallic hand.] Shulk Juju! [The foe then shows off its new catch to Shulk's party.] Sharla Juju! Reyn You pile of junk! Let him go! [Shulk and Reyn rush at the bronze-faced Mechon. Its red eyes blink, transmitting a signal.] Shulk Reyn! Better watch your back! Reyn Got it! [A couple Mechon drop in from the sky. Reyn hangs back to deal with them.] Reyn Cheers, Shulk! Mysterious Face You little... [The Mechon swings its hammer at Shulk and misses. Shulk swings the Monado at it, but his blade just clangs off its armour. The Face redoubles its attacks, sending Shulk running.] Shulk Why? Why can't I use the Monado?! It's only the ones that have faces. But... [Shulk ducks an incoming hammer swing.] Shulk I can still see what it's going to do! Just like before! Mysterious Face Nice tricks you got there, pipsqueak! Darting around the place! That the Monado's power? Won't matter, you're still flesh and blood, and I reckon you're nearly done! [Another Mechon flies in to attack Shulk, but Reyn beats it off.] Mysterious Face Behind you! [More Mechon land.] Reyn Shulk! Leave these to me! Go take him out! [Shulk dashes towards the Face.] Shulk Got it! [Mysterious Face punches at Shulk, stopping him. It brings its hammer down, but Sharla's rifle shot stops the attack cold.] Sharla Now! Reyn Right! [Reyn stabs at the Face with his driver, but it's no use.] Reyn It's just bouncing off 'im! [The Mechon rises into the air...] Mysterious Face That was fun for a while. But now I'm bored! [...and comes crashing down, its hammer creating a massive shockwave that sends all three party members flying backwards, screaming.] Juju Sharla! [Sharla, her rifle on the ground, is dangling over the cliff edge, holding on with only one hand. The Face raises its hammer against Shulk.] Mysterious Face Time to finish you off! Reyn Shulk! Look out! [A close-up of Mysterious Face's shell reveals the flowing red lines starting to turn green. The Face stops its attack.] Mysterious Face Looks like my time here's up. It's your lucky day, little boy! But that luck won't last forever. [As Shulk questions what's going on, the Face shows Juju to the party, still struggling in its mechanical grasp.] Mysterious Face I'll keep hold of this brat. If you want him back you'd better come to Colony 6. But you'll have to be be quick. I'm feeling hungry! Reyn You! You're gonna pay! [The bronze-faced Mechon laughs as it takes off skyward.] Mysterious Face I can't wait to grind you all into dust! Juju Sharla! Sharla! No! [Shulk watches helplessly as the other Mechon take off and join the Face; they all disappear into the sky. Sharla pulls herself up over the ledge, panting.] Sharla Juju...  [Flashback to Sharla and Juju together inside a base at Colony 6. A man runs in to join them.] Sharla Gadolt! [Gadolt hands his rifle to Sharla.] Gadolt It's only been a year since the Battle of Sword Valley. How? How did their numbers grow so quickly? [Gadolt watches Sharla work on his rifle as an older man enters.] ??? Are their numbers too great even for you, Gadolt? Sharla Otharon. [The older man, Otharon, hesitates and seems pained.] Otharon Medic Sharla, here are your new orders. You and Juju are to ready the evac ships. You will be in charge of the evacuation. [Sharla and Juju share a look, clearly unhappy with these orders.] Sharla But... Otharon You must realise, the ships can only carry so many. We must stay behind and fight to protect those who remain in Colony 6. [Sharla groans and looks to Gadolt.] Gadolt I'll be fine. I'll be able to keep my mind on the battle knowing you're safe. [Sharla clutches Gadolt's Rifle as he moves to put a reassuring hand on her.] Sharla Promise me. Gadolt Sharla... Sharla Promise that you'll meet us outside the colony. I... Just make sure you get out of here alive! [She offers him back his rifle.] Gadolt Yeah. [He takes it and begins to leave.] Gadolt I promise. Don't worry. [Later, elsewhere in the colony, children are preparing hover transports as Sharla stands nearby.] Sharla [inwardly] Gadolt. A promise is a promise. And until I see you again, I will protect everyone. [Gadolt walks towards the flames of war, waving back at Sharla, but a mysterious, sinister voice interrupts the moment.] Mysterious Face [V.O.] No, let me protect everyone! [Flash forward to the bronze-faced Mechon holding Juju in its clutches at Spiral Valley.] Juju Sharla! Mysterious Face I keep 'em real safe! Inside my belly! Juju Sharla! Sharla Juju! [Back in the present, Sharla bolts upright in bed.] Sharla Juju! [She looks around to see she's back inside the cave at the Refugee Camp.] Sharla Where are you? [Sharla soon gets up and heads outside, where she finds Shulk and Reyn.] Shulk Hey there. Are you all right? Reyn The sleeping princess awakes. Had us worried there for a minute. Sharla How long have I been out? Reyn Huh? Sharla How long have I been unconscious?! Shulk Four hours, I'd say. Sharla I've gotta get out of here! [She rushes off, but the other two stop her.] Reyn Hold up! Shulk Mind if we go with you? Reyn You're going to bust into their base, right? We want a piece of them too. Sharla Really...? Reyn Truth be told, we were gonna leave without you. But the thing is...I get roughed up a lot and we don't know anyone else who can use ether. Sharla I... Thank you both. [The three then begin their departure from the Refugee Camp, but Sharla halts.] Sharla It's been a while... And it's just... I never imagined I would go back to Colony 6 like this. [Shulk and Reyn hang their heads.] Sharla I'm sorry. Lost myself for a minute. [The view shifts to Spiral Valley and pans across the bridge traversing Kasharpa Falls before stopping at the Bask Cave Passage leading to Colony 6.] Sharla We can get to Colony 6 from the valley where Juju was taken. [The view returns to the Refugee Camp.] Sharla It's this way. [Sharla leads the other two out of the camp and towards her colony.] [Bionis area intro: Colony 6] [As they approach Watchpoint Junction, the party can see the fortified wall of Colony 6 from the Supply Road.] Shulk This is Colony 6? Reyn It's like a fortress. Did people really live here? Sharla So much has changed... It's only been a month. Reyn We'll find Juju and then smash some metal! Shulk Wait! We can't just rush in. Sharla We could enter through the mine. Shulk Mine? [The view shifts to the Drainage Outlet directly beneath the colony.] Sharla There's a massive ether deposit under the colony. [The view shifts to the Splintered Path, suspended from the leg of the Bionis over nothingness, leading to the Drainage Outlet.] Sharla The first settlers here built right on top of the mine. That's how we got our colony. The mine is like a network of tunnels. It's much more complicated than the colony streets. They can't have figured it all out in the space of a month. [The view returns to the party at Watchpoint Junction.] Reyn So... Shulk She means it's the best route if we want to remain unseen. Sharla You're catching on. Reyn Great! So how do we get in? Sharla Through the Drainage Outlet. It's just up ahead. [Sharla leads Shulk and Reyn down the Splintered Path and into the Ether Mine. Inside the mine as the party leave the Drainage Control Room, Sharla suddenly crouches and halts the other two.] Sharla Guys! Kill the noise. [They see a Mechon patrolling a nearby corridor.] Shulk A Mechon. Sharla I can't believe they've taken the mine too! That means the Defence Force and residents are... [She rises from her place, realisation dawning.] Sharla Oh no, Juju! Reyn Keep it together, Sharla! Don't start panicking now. Sharla Reyn... Reyn You said yourself, they can't have seized the entire area, right? I bet you they're holed up someplace safe. Juju is alive, and we're gonna find him. Shulk That's why we're here. You can count on us. Sharla Yes, it'll be fine. Reyn... Shulk... Thank you. [Later, the three are trudging through Test Pit 3 when they hear rifle shots.] Sharla An Ether Rifle? Gadolt! [She dashes off.] Reyn Sharla, wait! [The other two take off after her. Sharla arrives at the Storage Depot and starts shooting down Mechon.] Sharla Gadolt! [Otharon is on a lower floor fighting off Mechon with an Ether Rifle.] Otharon I know that voice. Medic, is that you?! Sharla Otharon! [She hurries over to him, shooting Mechon as she goes. By now, Shulk and Reyn have also arrived.] Shulk That's our cue, Reyn. Reyn Oh yeah! [After ridding the Storage Depot of Mechon, Sharla runs up to Otharon.] Otharon Medic. Why are you here? Sharla Sir. Isn't Gadolt with you? [Otharon takes several tentative steps away from her.] Otharon We have much to discuss. You'd better come with me. Sharla Sir. [The group walk into the Mining Base, where the others catch Otharon up on what has been happening.] Otharon So, Juju has been taken by the bronze-faced one. Sharla Sir, what about Gadolt? Otharon Gadolt is gone. Sharla Gone?! What do you mean gone? [Flashback to Otharon and Gadolt in this same base, planning.] Otharon Gadolt and I planned a surprise attack to set everyone free. [The two men leave, and the screen fades to black.] Otharon But we failed miserably. [Flashback to Otharon unconscious in the Storage Depot, Gadolt's Rifle lying on a nearby landing.] Otharon When I woke, Gadolt was nowhere to be seen. [Back to the present, the view on that same rifle.] Otharon Only his rifle remained. But he is alive. I can feel it. We may not be joined by blood, but he's like a son to me. I'd know if he were dead. [Sharla groans at the news.] Reyn Some of the people in Colony 9 got eaten... Shulk Reyn! Reyn Sorry. Forget I said that. Otharon They don't kill Homs right away. If that bronze-faced one took him, we still have some time left. Shulk Are you sure? Otharon Boy, that blade was once Dunban's. I'm not sure why you have it, but we're going to need its full power. Shulk You can count on me. Otharon We're heading for the Central Pit. It's where they take all the Homs they kidnap. If Juju's alive, that's where he'll be. [Otharon begins to walk off.] Otharon Gather your things. We're moving out. [As they leave, Shulk has a vision: Otharon is on top of a mobile artillery.] Otharon Juju! Gadolt! [Otharon is now falling into a pit of flowing ether.] Otharon This is for you! [Back to the present, Shulk gasps.] Shulk What? Reyn You say something, Shulk? Shulk No. It's nothing. Forget it. [Shulk, Reyn and Sharla follow Otharon deeper into the mine. Descending a flight of stairs, Shulk lingers behind the others.] Reyn Hurry it up, slowcoach! Sharla What's wrong? [Otharon walks off as another view of the ether pit from Shulk's vision dominates his thoughts.] Otharon [V.O.] Juju! Gadolt! This is for you! Shulk [inwardly] What can it mean? 'This is for you.' Is Juju already dead? Or is he going to be killed? Is that why Otharon... [The others begin to set off without Shulk.] Shulk [inwardly] But then... What does that mean? If we keep moving, is Otharon really going to die? [Shulk hurries down the stairs and catches up with the others.] Shulk No! Reyn What's wrong Shulk? Otharon This battle is for my people. If you can't handle it, drop that weapon and head home. Shulk That's not it! I... It's just that... Otharon Out with it! Shulk Listen... Maybe we shouldn't just rush in head first. Otharon What? Reyn We got this far. Shulk I think we should observe them and plan our attack afterwards. Otharon You insolent... We don't have that kind of time! You don't know a damn thing about these machines. I have observed their movements. I've planned this attack for a month! I know full well what's going to happen to my brothers and sisters! Shulk It's just... Otharon We're going. Fall in, Medic. Sharla Sir! [She turns to Shulk as Otharon moves on.] Sharla What's got into you? Shulk I... Reyn A vision again? Don't tell me, another death? Shulk Yeah. Reyn I knew it. The Shulk I know doesn't just chicken out for any old reason. Sharla This vision... Was it like before? Shulk Kind of. I saw an underground ether river. And Otharon... Reyn An ether river. You know what? That sword lets you see the future. All that power and you still keep getting it wrong. Shulk Better to use my brain than my fists. Reyn Shulk, I may rush in head first, but at least my head's useful for something. Shulk OK, OK. I get the idea. Reyn I ain't done yet! You're useless on your own, Shulk. That's why we're here. Shulk Reyn, I... Reyn Next time you have a vision, you tell us. We bear the burden together, as a team. [Shulk makes an indecisive sound.] Reyn You have a vision you don't like, we'll change the future together. Got it? Shulk Got it. Reyn What was that! Say it like you mean it! Shulk I got it, all right! Next time, I'll tell you. Sharla He's right, Shulk. You two saved Juju once before. I know we can do it again. I believe in you. Shulk Thanks. Shulk [inwardly] They're right. We'll change what happens. Anyway, I didn't see Juju and the others dying. There's still hope. [As Otharon goes his own way, Shulk's party open the way to the Central Pit.] [Bionis area intro: Central Pit] [The party arrive at the Central Pit Entrance where the previously narrow confines of the Ether Mine open up to a wide shaft full of rotating machinery. Sharla turns to face Shulk and Reyn.] Sharla We're here. The Central Pit. [Reyn steps forward takes a look around.] Reyn Where are they all? I don't see anyone. [Sharla walks towards a nearby lift.] Sharla We'll take that lift. Reyn I'm ready to mash some Mechon! Shulk Yeah! Juju, Otharon... Just hold on! [The party descend a series of lifts to the Base Level at the bottom of the Central Pit... only to find numerous bloodstains on the floor.] Sharla No... They're gone. So whose blood is... [Sharla looks up.] Sharla Oh no! Mysterious Face [O.C.] Ahh, here at last! [The bronze-faced Mechon flies overhead.] Mysterious Face I've been getting hungry! [The Mysterious Face lands opposite the party.] Reyn Shulk, isn't that...? Shulk It's him all right. He's the one who took Juju! [The bronze Face stalks forward, accompanied by several smaller Mechon.] Sharla Juju and the others! Tell me where they are! [Sharla aims her rifle, but the Face laughs.] Mysterious Face You want the brat? Well, he's right here. [Juju is shown to the party suspended high above the pit, unconscious and bound with laser cables being held by a flying Mechon unit.] Sharla Juju! Mysterious Face He's still alive. But don't think he will be for long! [Meanwhile, as the bronze Face continues speaking, Otharon sneaks down towards the Base Level and alights upon a mobile artillery.] Mysterious Face As for the others, well... I just couldn't help myself. I ate them all up! [Shulk's party and Otharon react in dismay.] Mysterious Face Welcome to our banquet hall. Tonight, the main course will be you! And if I've still got room, the brat will make a tasty dessert. Shulk Murderer! Mysterious Face I'm Xord, your host tonight. Shulk Xord? So you have a name? Xord That's what they all say. Can't say that I remember it myself! Shulk What's he talking about?! Xord Oh yes! It's good to see fresh meat on the table. Those colony folk just didn't fill me up! [Xord strikes the ground with his hammer menacingly.] Sharla Gadolt... The others... Xord Come on boys, dinner's ready! [The smaller Mechon approach the group as Shulk casts Monado Enchant on Reyn and Sharla.] Sharla I swear I won't stop until I've scrapped each and every one of you! [Sharla begins firing on the Mechon, completely destroying one of the units, but Xord swats her back towards Reyn.] Reyn Get behind me! [Three more machines approach them, but Shulk runs in front of his companions and bisects all three.] Shulk Reyn! Sharla! We are Homs. And we won't just stand here waiting to be eaten! [Otharon watches this display from the artillery and decides to hop inside.] Xord The Monado? Do you think that that thing can dent me? [Shulk rushes towards him.] Shulk How about this! [But again the Monado clangs harmlessly off Xord's leg; the Mechon laughs.] Xord I'm not Metal Face. You'll have to try harder! [Shulk narrowly dodges Xord's subsequent hammer swing.] Shulk It's the same as before. The Monado's useless against this guy. [The three engage Xord in battle, but in the end, he beats them off, sending them sprawling backwards.] Shulk No! We'll never get to Juju at this rate. I've got to think of something! [Just then, the mobile artillery that Otharon had commandeered comes in, one of the cannons punching Xord in the face, sending the Mechon reeling.] Xord Where did you come from?! Otharon You feeling hungry, eh? [The two engage in metallic fisticuffs, and Otharon gets the upper hand.] Otharon Chew on this, scrap-for-brains! [Otharon's vehicle grabs Xord with a large clasp and shoves the Mechon to the ground. Shulk, Reyn and Sharla look on. Otharon gets their attention.] Otharon Boy! Now's your chance. Save Juju! Shulk Otharon, don't do it! Otharon Hurry up! [Sharla and Reyn run off to obey Otharon's orders.] Shulk At this rate, even if we save Juju, Otharon's gonna be... [Flashback to Reyn's words earlier in the mine.] Reyn You see a vision you don't like, we'll change the future together. Got it? [Back in the present, Sharla and Reyn run over to Juju's limp form.] Shulk Change the future. [Shulk looks over and finds another vehicle, this one with a crane.] Shulk Yes! That's it! [Shulk looks to Sharla and Reyn, who are tending to Juju.] Shulk Reyn! You grab Juju! Reyn Shulk, what are you doing? [Meanwhile, Otharon has slammed Xord against the central barrier close to the ether river.] Xord Old man, you think you can stop me? Otharon No I don't. But I can do this! [Otharon sends the pincer arm on his vehicle into the ether tank behind Xord, triggering a small explosion - enough to cause the part of the floor Xord is on to start crumbling away into the ether below.] Otharon Let's see if that Mechon body of yours can withstand an ether river. [Xord holds on for dear life. Elsewhere, Sharla cradles Juju in her lap.] Sharla Juju! Wake up! Reyn Sharla, leave the rest to us. [Reyn runs off to aid Otharon.] Reyn Hang in there you old fool! Otharon Fall, you damn machine! [At last, Xord loses his grip and tumbles with a cry towards the ether river.] Xord Damn you! [Shulk activates his own vehicle and starts moving in.] Shulk Otharon! [But Otharon's vehicle slumps over and starts slipping towards the pit.] Shulk Hold on! [Shulk's crane shoots forward and grabs the leg of Otharon's mobile artillery; the grappling crane causes Shulk's vehicle to careen forward and almost crash into Otharon's.] Sharla Shulk! Reyn What a shot! [Otharon is still in the cockpit, hovering perilously over the pit.] Otharon Boy... [Shulk pulls a lever on his console.] Shulk We can change our destinies. Otharon... You won't die here. Not today. [But a tremendous weight causes Shulk's crane to suddenly surge forward. From the ether river, Xord has grabbed hold of Otharon's mobile artillery.] Xord You cannot defeat me. Shulk Get out of there, quick! [Otharon begins to climb out of the cockpit.] Shulk It's giving way! [But once atop the vehicle, instead of getting to safety, Otharon stands and aims Gadolt's Rifle down at Xord.] Reyn He's gonna... [Reyn runs towards him.] Otharon It won't be long now, my friends. But not before... Gadolt! This is for you! This is for the people of Colony 6! [Otharon shoots Xord, causing the latter to lose his grip and plunge into the ether river screaming. The impact catapults Otharon off his vehicle and into the air as he tumbles helplessly.] Shulk But I... This isn't supposed to happen. Otharon! [Otharon falls towards the ether river, along with the mobile artillery.] Otharon [inwardly] Gadolt, I'll see you before long. [But just as Shulk has given up hope, Reyn runs to the edge, leans over and grabs Otharon just as the latter's vehicle sinks into the ether. Shulk looks up to see Reyn hanging from his crane and holding Gadolt's Rifle, from which Otharon is dangling.] Reyn That was close! You wanna hurry up? My arm's about ready to drop off. Otharon Thank you. [Otharon climbs up to where Reyn is positioned on the end of the crane.] Reyn Save the thanks for Shulk and his vision. As soon as I saw an ether river, I knew this had to be the place. [Shulk maneuvers the crane away from the ether river over safe ground. Afterwards, the three men walk over to Sharla and Juju.] Sharla Juju... You're safe now. [Reyn turns to Shulk.] Reyn What did I tell you? You and me can make anything happen. Shulk Yeah, you were right. Otharon A boy who can change the future. I stand corrected, young man. You've done a great deed here today. Shulk I didn't really do anything. I couldn't have done it without you guys. Otharon Tell me. Your vision saved me. But what of the others? What happened to Gadolt? [Shulk shakes his head.] Otharon I see... [Otharon turns to Sharla.] Otharon Sharla, take this. Gadolt would have wanted you to have it. [He presents to her Gadolt's Rifle, which she then cradles.] Reyn Time to head back to the camp. Shulk We'll need to get Juju some medical attention. Sharla There's a freight elevator on the next level. From there, it's an easy route out of the mine. As long as it's working... Reyn We'll know that when we get on it. Sharla You make me laugh. Reyn Well, I'm right, ain't I? Sharla You're absolutely right. We need to move on and stop worrying about every little thing. Come on, guys. [Upon arriving at the Freight Elevator, Shulk examines the Start Button.] Shulk Good. Works perfectly. Reyn You see! What did I say? Sharla We're all impressed. [Shulk chuckles at this.] [Later, as the Freight Elevator is taking the party upwards, it stops with a sudden jolt.] Reyn Hey, why've we stopped? Shulk I don't know. But I think we're about to find out. [Xord leaps onto the elevator, rusted and his armour badly damaged from the ether river.] Reyn Not him again. Sharla This one doesn't give up! Shulk This is our chance, guys. [This time, the trio utterly defeat Xord, who is left sparking and leaking ether on the elevator floor. The Mechon groans and raises his hammer.] Xord Still hungry! [Sharla rushes in front of Shulk and Reyn and uses Gadolt's Rifle to blow off Xord's arm. The Mechon crumples to the floor, parts of him falling off.] Reyn Did we get him? [With Xord barely breathing, the party cautiously approach him.] Xord Got to hand it to you. You beat me without even releasing the true power of the Monado. Shulk True power? What do you know about the Monado? Xord Sorry, boy, I can't tell you that. You'll have to find out the truth on your own. Shulk The truth? Xord When I became what you see now, that's when my eyes were opened. Was a good ride while it lasted. Shulk When you became like this? What do you mean?! [Xord's engines light up, moving him closer to the edge.] Xord Time's up, pipsqueak. I'm gone! [Xord tumbles over into the deep elevator shaft.] Shulk Xord! [Upon hitting the bottom of the shaft, Xord explodes into a fiery conflagration of blue light.] Reyn Get back! [With Xord's demise, the Freight Elevator resumes its journey up. The group then dash outside the Ether Mine onto the Freight Road a moment before the elevator blows. Smoke billows from the entrance.] Reyn We smashed that bronze idiot. [Reyn sets Juju down next to Sharla.] Reyn Now the people of Colony 6 can rest in peace. Sharla Yeah. [Juju begins to stir in Sharla's arms.] Sharla Are you OK? Juju Sharla? Sharla Thank the stars you're all right. Juju Where are we? Sharla Just outside Colony 6. Thanks to Shulk and Reyn we destroyed that thing. But not everyone made it. Juju Oh... [Juju gets to his feet.] Juju I'm so sorry. Shulk, Reyn... I didn't mean to cause any more trouble, running off like that. Reyn Forget about it, kid. We settled the score. Juju Thanks! Shulk Yes, but there's still no sign of that Mechon with the metal face. He's the one we're really after. Reyn Yeah. Metal Face [O.C.] Hope I'm not interrupting! [From behind them emerges Metal Face.] Shulk It's him! Metal Face! [With him land numerous other faced Mechon.] Reyn Not just him! A whole bunch! And tons of 'em look like Xord! Metal Face Pathetic! After all that talk, Xord was crushed by worthless maggots like you. Reyn This one can talk 'n' all! Metal Face I can talk all right. And I got a good memory. 'Fiora! Get outta there! Get out!' [Metal Face laughs cruelly.] Metal Face Her screams were music to my ears as my claws slid right through her soft flesh. Like a hot knife through butter. [Metal Face continues to laugh as Shulk powers up the Monado.] Shulk Talk all you want. Because those words will be your last! [Shulk rushes Metal Face in a frenzy, but the Mechon bats aside Shulk's attack like before.] Metal Face The Monado? Heh, it's been a while. But you should know by now. The Monado can't stop me! [Metal Face's claw attack sends Shulk sprawling backwards.] Reyn and Sharla Shulk! Reyn I'm gonna... Metal Face Anyway you slice it, the Monado ain't gonna work, boy. Didn't work then, won't work now. Now, time to cut you down to size! [Before Metal Face can attack, a red energy beam from off-screen explodes at his feet.] Metal Face What?! [He turns to see Dickson on a high clifftop, aiming his Sabre at the Mechon.] Otharon That's... Dickson Now! Let 'em have it, Beast! [Dunban runs onto the battlefield shouting a battle cry. Armed with a new sword, he cuts into a couple Mechon with surprising effectiveness.] Shulk Dunban! Reyn How did you...?! Dunban Sorry to have kept you. Looks like we were just in time. [Dickson then slides down the cliff behind him to join the battle.] [Yet despite the addition of Dunban and Dickson, the side of the Homs is still being overwhelmed by Metal Face and the large numbers of Mechon with him.] Reyn There's no end to them. Where are they coming from? Sharla I can take the smaller ones. But the rest'll be like fighting Xord over and over! Shulk If only the Monado would work on these things! Dunban Focus, Shulk! Reyn Look out! [Reyn tackles Shulk to save him from an attacking Mechon.] Sharla Reyn! [She then opens fire on the Mechon as Metal Face laughs at the scene playing out before him.] Metal Face Look at you all. Dickson Look at this, metal brain! [Dickson fires his Sabre at Metal Face, who blocks the shot.] Metal Face That it, grandpa?! Dickson Running out of ideas here. Dunban You may be able to block a projectile. But let's see if you can block this! [Dunban leaps up to perform a slash against the Face, but his claws stop the attack cold. Metal Face laughs.] Metal Face Tell me. How does it feel to be such a pathetic hero? [Metal Face throws Dunban down to the ground.] Shulk You OK, Dunban? Metal Face Does it hurt? I bet it does. It hurts because the Monado won't work for a bunch of losers like you! [Metal Face attempts to spear Dunban with his claws, who dodges just in time.] Dunban What are you? Metal Face Save it, I ain't interested. You little maggots need to learn when you've been stepped on! [Metal Face charges up a large ball of blue light from the cannon at the top of his frame.] Dunban That light... Everyone! Fall back, now! Metal Face Won't change a thing. I'm gonna wipe you out once and for all! [But before Metal Face can unleash the attack, a blast of green light takes down one of the other faced Mechon.] Metal Face What the?! [An ancient winged monster flies past, roaring.] Metal Face A Telethia?! [The Telethia swoops back in, shooting more green lightning, which scatters the Mechon Faces.] Shulk Now's our chance! [Shulk runs along Metal Face's arm and buries the Monado's blade in the Mechon's shoulder.] Metal Face You'll pay for that! How are you- [Shulk almost seems to be damaging Metal Face, using the heat of the Monado's blade to melt the metal, but he's interrupted by a vision: He is on the roof of that same tower from an earlier vision. He can see the horn of the Bionis.] Sharla We must be outside the tower. [The vision flashes forward to the imprisoned Giant.] ??? Welcome, True Heir to the Monado. [The regal man with wings on his head is there, and so is the girl with the smaller wings.] ??? Father! [The two embrace before the vision shifts to Metal Face, with other faced Mechon with him.] Metal Face Weak! Weak and pathetic! [The vision shifts to Dunban, kneeling over the winged girl but looking up at someone else, seemingly Metal Face.] Dunban What or who are you?! [The vision shifts to Shulk with the Monado activated as a silver-faced Mechon attempts to dodge out of his way.] Shulk You will pay for what you've done! [The vision shifts again to Shulk attacking Metal Face with the Monado, but this time, the Monado cuts through the faced Mechon with ease. Shulk approaches a weakened and wounded Metal Face.] Shulk You will know the pain and suffering you caused the Emperor and Fiora! [As Shulk raises what appears to be the killing blow, the vision shifts to a different Mechon, the silver-faced one, sparking from the Monado's attack. Pieces of it fall away to reveal something inside, but the vision ends and Shulk is returned to the present before he can see anything further.] Shulk Another one... Metal Face Enough of this! [Metal Face knocks Shulk off of him. There is now a yellow burn scar on his mechanical arm.] Metal Face You got lucky, brat! Next time, your head is mine! [Metal Face takes off.] Shulk You're not getting away! [Shulk and Reyn attempt to pursue.] Reyn Get back here! Dunban Shulk, Reyn, let it go! Reyn You've got to be kidding! He's the one who killed Fiora! Dunban Know your limits. We'll get another chance. Shulk Fine. [Shulk deactivates the Monado. Meanwhile, the Telethia flies off.] Dunban That thing saved us. Whatever it was. [The Telethia then flies up a high cliff to its owner, who resembles the mysterious young man from Shulk's dreams.] ??? You did well. But what of the boy? [The Telethia gives an answer in its own animalistic language.] ??? Well then, there is much to be done.  [Dunban and Dickson make their way over to the rest of the party.] Otharon I thought it was you. Nice to see you, Dickson. Dickson It's been a while, grandpa. One year if my memory hasn't left me. Good to see you haven't kicked the bucket. [Otharon laughs heartily.] Otharon Put a sock in it. Sharla Wait... Dickson? Dunban? You're the heroes who risked your lives a year ago, in the battle to defend the colonies. Dickson What's a pretty young lady like you doing hanging around with this bunch of slackers? Shulk Dunban, Dickson, thanks for helping out back there. Dunban I don't believe we did anything. Dickson He's right. Save your thanks for that giant bird. Shulk What was that thing? Dickson A Telethia. A mystical beast that protects the sleeping Bionis. Though, I've never heard of one ever venturing down to where us Homs live. Strange. Dunban A Telethia. So that's what it's called. Shulk A mystical beast that protects the Bionis. Dunban So, what's your plan from here? Follow that metal-faced machine, I presume? Reyn What else? He's gonna pay for what he did to Fiora. Dunban Well then. There's only one place he'd go. Galahad Fortress in Sword Valley. A year ago, those things were building a huge fortress, right in the valley. Tactically, it's an excellent location to launch attacks from. I feel there's a strong chance they've now finished building it. That would explain why both colonies were attacked recently. Otharon Sword Valley... The very place where we made our last stand one year ago. Reyn So it's settled. Bash down a fortress and smash some metal brains! Shulk Easy, Reyn. Reyn Shulk? Shulk There's somewhere else I need to go first. Reyn But what could be more important than... Wait... You saw another one. Dickson Saw what? What're you on about? [After Shulk's visions have been explained to the others...] Dickson These visions sound pretty handy. Well, out with it. What d'ya see? Shulk I was somewhere very high up. I was fighting at the peak of a huge tower. Fighting Metal Face. I heard a voice, and then the Monado's power was unleashed. His armour instantly gave way. The Monado doesn't work on Metal Face at the moment, but if that vision comes true... Dickson A tower? Doesn't give us much to go on. Sharla Can you remember anything else from your vision? Shulk I remember a huge horn. That's it! As I fought Metal Face, I could see the Bionis' head. Dickson Prison Island. Sharla Prison Island? Dickson I've never been. But I've heard of a black tower at the head of the Bionis. They say it was built by the ancient High Entia race. Shulk The High Entia are real? I thought they were a myth! Dickson I wouldn't blame you, son. An ancient race living at the top of the Bionis? It does sound crazy. But Bionis is home to all kinds of different people, not just us. That includes the High Entia. Dunban The High Entia? I'd dismissed them as folklore as well. Dickson Never assume anything. Seeing is believing, right? Shulk Have you ever met one? Dickson Well, yeah. Reyn Wow! Dickson, man, you're just full of surprises! Dickson What can I say? I'm well travelled. And it's all for your future. Day and night I've searched for new lands, met new cultures and gained knowledge for our people. The life of a wandering old fool. A lonely one at that. [Dunban chuckles.] Dunban Stop your whining. You do it 'cos you enjoy it. And you make a tidy profit. Dickson Who asked you, Dunban? Dunban Well then, Shulk, what's it to be? Shulk We'll head there. Dunban There are alternatives. We could abandon the colonies, find a place the Mechon will not discover and live in secret. Shulk I realised something when we were fighting Xord. Wherever we go, they'll follow. We can't run from these things. We must fight on. Dunban I see. Then I am obliged to join you. Shulk You want to come with us? Dunban Scared I'll get hurt? Shulk No way! We know you're stronger than anything! Right, Reyn? Reyn You bet! Dunban I've recovered a great deal since we last met. And that miserly old coot over there made me this. [Sheathed on Dunban's belt is the Anti-Mechon Glaive.] Dunban Sharp, light. Perfect for cutting through steel. Show me a Mechon and I'll slice it in two. I might not be in peak condition, but I'm useful. Shulk I can't thank you enough. Dunban We're in it together now. Shulk You can count on us, Dunban. Dickson Miserly old coot? That sword is forged from Mechon armour. It's worth every penny. Dunban So you keep saying... Dickson If you wanna go to the Bionis' head, you'll need a guide to get to the upper regions. Dunban We're at the bottom, so I guess the only way to go is up. Dickson Right. But we'll need to go up the lower back first. Shulk The lower back... Dickson Colony 6 is right at the top of the Bionis' leg. So we'll have to head around the waist. Through a place called Satorl Marsh. Follow me. [The group accompany Dickson down the Freight Road to the Misty Path and into Satorl Marsh.] [Bionis area intro: Satorl Marsh] [The party arrive in Satorl Marsh at the Kelsher Wetland and can see the trees lit up in an eerie bioluminescent glow at night.] Shulk I've never seen anywhere like this! Dickson Y'see? This is why I've been saying you need to get out of the lab every now and then. [Dickson turns to the rest of the group.] Dickson We're aiming to get inside the Bionis. We can get to the upper regions from there. Sharla Wow... I've never thought about going inside the Bionis. Dickson The closer we get to the top, the more monster trouble we're gonna run into. The only things that venture this far in are the Nopon Merchants and curious types like me. Dunban You really know all the fun spots, eh, Dickson? Dickson You wanna get to the top? Then this is the only way. Shulk We'll push on. No matter what. Dickson That's the spirit, Shulk. [Deeper into the marsh, the group come into Lacus Swamp.] Sharla Everyone, look. [A view of the Nopon Merchant Camp ahead, tended by the small, furry and primitive species known as Nopon.] Sharla It's a group of Nopon. Dickson Some Nopon Merchants. Reyn What d'ya think they're up to? Sharla They must be here for a reason. Let's go and ask them. Shulk Good idea. [After resupplying their stock with the Nopon Merchants, the party eventually arrive at the Silent Obelisk on the other side of the Barren Moor.] Shulk This lamp... It has a very strange glow. Dickson It's a remnant of the High Entia. They've hidden themselves away in the upper reaches now, but at one time they controlled this whole area. Reyn Good for them. Dickson It's the perfect place to get some shut eye. The lamp'll keep the monsters away. We'll be safe if we rest here. [Later that night, Shulk is unable to sleep. Flashback to him and Fiora at Outlook Park in Colony 9.] Fiora The breeze feels so good. It's so peaceful. You know, Shulk, I hope every day can be like this, always. [Flashback to Fiora's mobile artillery being slammed to pieces during the Mechon assault on Colony 9. Her scream is cut off as Metal Face runs her through with his claws, then casually tosses the vehicle away to the waiting Mechon behind him. Flash forward to Shulk's vision on Prison Island.] Shulk You will pay for what you've done! [The silver-faced Mechon dodges out of the way. Shulk hacks away at Metal Face with success.] Shulk You will know the pain and suffering you caused the Emperor and Fiora! [The killing blow meant for Metal Face results in pieces falling off of the silver-faced Mechon instead. Finally, the mysterious young man from Shulk's previous dream appears at the top of Prison Island.] ??? Do you wish to change it? The future. [Back in the present, Shulk is still deep in thought.] Dickson Has it been that long? Shulk Dickson. Dickson Fourteen years since I found you on that mountain. [Flashback to Dickson discovering the dead bodies of the Monado expedition team and finding Shulk and the Monado.] Dickson Seems like yesterday. [In the present, Shulk gets to his feet.] Shulk I owe it all to you. If you hadn't found me that day, I wouldn't be here now, discovering the world. Dickson Forgive me, Shulk. Sorry I couldn't save your folks. Shulk Don't be. Dickson Now I think about it, that was when I found the Monado as well. This might be crazy talk, but maybe you and the Monado are part of some higher plan. Shulk I don't remember much at all. But I know that my mum and dad left me it. The Monado was their final gift to me. At least, that's how I used to think of it. That's why I wanna discover its true power and help defeat the Mechon. But so far I've just been creating piles of Mechon scrap. Dickson So you don't just wanna study it in a lab after all. Shulk This sword... There must be some way... [The next morning, Shulk makes his way over to the rest of the party.] Dickson Finally decided to join us, Shulk? Shulk Sorry, guys. Didn't sleep a wink. Dunban Right then. Time to move on. How far now? Dickson We'll be there soon enough. The High Entia ruins are just ahead. [In time, the group arrive at the base of the Sororal Statues at the far end of the marsh.] Dickson The upper regions are through that entrance. You gotta go through Makna Forest first. Prison Island is at the Bionis' head, just above Makna Forest. Otharon It pains me to say it, but this is the point where I turn back. I must see to the survivors, and I'm also very concerned about Colony 9. Shulk I understand. Thank you for everything. Otharon I might have said a few things I shouldn't have back in the mine. Forgive me. Shulk No, it's OK. Otharon I owe you my life, young man. I'll never forget it, Heir to the Monado. Medic, will you stay with them? Sharla I want to help Shulk. The Mechon must pay for what they did. And I'm sure Gadolt is still alive somewhere. If he is, I have to find him. Otharon Find him, for me too. Good luck. Juju Sharla, I want to go with Otharon. Sharla Are you sure? Juju Yeah. I've never seen anything cooler than Shulk smashing Mechon with the Monado! But I'm just slowing you down. Reyn No way, kid! You just need to shape up like me! Juju It's OK. I've made up my mind. Compared to you guys, I know I'm pretty useless. But that's cool. Because I know what I can do. I'm gonna go back to the colony and help the survivors rebuild their lives. Reyn You'll do us proud, kid. Shulk Good luck, Juju. Juju Thanks! Otharon Shulk, Reyn. Keep Sharla safe for me. [They nod in agreement. Shulk then comes over to Dickson.] Shulk Dickson, are you leaving too? Dickson The Mechon may be gone from Colony 6 now, but that doesn't mean we've seen the last of 'em. When they launch another attack, and they will, Colony 9's gonna need my help. Shulk Yeah, I guess you're really needed at the colony. Dickson This ain't the last you'll see of me. You should be all right for now. Look after the Monado. Shulk You can bet on it! We won't let the colony down. Dickson You'll make us proud, Shulk. [Dickson comes over to Reyn.] Dickson You, on the other hand, need to buck up your ideas! How else are you gonna protect Shulk? Reyn Thanks for the heads-up, Dickson. Dickson Good luck. See ya. [Dickson, Otharon and Juju set off back the other way.] Dickson [to himself] Can't say I feel so good about deceiving these kids. Otharon What's that you say? Dickson Just mumbling. Forget I said anything. [The three then walk off together to return to the colonies.] [Meanwhile Shulk, Reyn, Dunban and Sharla learn from the nearby Nopon Merchant that they must complete an ancient High Entia ceremony to be granted passage to the upper regions of Bionis. After finding and collecting the four offerings in Satorl Marsh, they present the offerings to the Adulthood Emblem to complete the Coming-of-Age Ceremony and defeat the Satorl Guardian. The path leading to the top of the Bionis then opens.] [Next, the party climb the newly formed steps and investigate the lift that leads to the top of the Sororal Statues.] Reyn The lift don't work! Shulk Looks like it's been broken for a while. We'll have to find another way up. Sharla Another way? You don't mean climb up there? Dunban We may have to. Reyn Come on, you can't be serious? Why'd someone build a lift that don't work? Shulk No complaining! Let's start looking for a place we can climb up. [The party make the long climb up to the Statue Summit. They pause at the entrance to the interior.] Shulk Reyn... Reyn Ready to go, Shulk? Shulk Yeah. But just hold on a minute. Dunban What is it, Shulk? Shulk It's about the Monado. I'd like to ask your permission to use it a little longer. Dunban Why ask me? Shulk The Monado was your sword. But...I need it to achieve my goal. So... [Dunban chuckles lightheartedly.] Dunban Don't sweat it. You are far more skillful at wielding that thing than I ever was. Keep it. It's yours. Besides, I have a new sword. That old coot had the decency to forge this one for me. I owe it to him to make the most of it! Shulk Dunban... Dunban You've fought your way this far. That is proof enough the Monado has accepted you. Don't take my word for it. Believe in yourself, Shulk. Shulk Believe in myself? Dunban Never lying down, never giving up. That's our pride and strength as Homs. And we have to make sure those metal monsters know it. Shulk You're right! Dunban Time to move, people. This Prison Island Shulk saw in his vision isn't getting any closer. [Through the back of the ruins, the party find themselves in an organic region, inside the Terminal Trachea in the Bionis' Interior.] Shulk What is this place? Reyn It's giving me the creeps. Dunban At a guess, I'd say we're inside the Bionis. [Shulk makes a noise of realisation.] Dunban What is it, Shulk? Shulk Nothing. It's just that... It feels like the Bionis isn't really dead. [Dunban seems taken aback by the thought.] Reyn Wait a minute, Shulk. If the Bionis starts moving around, things won't look good for us! Let's just keep moving. Shulk Right. [The group continue their journey through the dead interior of the Bionis.] [Meanwhile, a trio of Mechon led by Metal Face - the scar on his frame from Shulk's attack still visible - fly across Sword Valley over Galahad Fortress. Inside, a mysterious woman oversees the construction of a silver-faced Mechon. There seems to be a Mechon-armoured being inside as the machine closes up; a component is placed on the chest and the faceplate lights up. Various machines continue to work on the Face. It is the woman who speaks.] ??? Face Nemesis. Your frame is complete. All that remains is the soul transfer. [The woman brings up an image of Metal Face on her screen and studies the yellow scar on his arm.] ??? That damage... Does a weapon exist that can melt Face armour? How? [Another voice sounds from a nearby device.] ??? [V.O.] Lady Vanea. Master Egil wishes to see you. [The mysterious woman, Lady Vanea, turns back to Face Nemesis.] Vanea Understood. Tell him I will see him when this Face is complete. ??? [V.O.] Acknowledged. [Face Nemesis' chest component glows red with power, the soul transfer apparently finished.] Vanea I have fulfilled my duty. You and only you can bring about a new age on Mechonis, no, the entire world. My Mistress, Lady Meyneth. [The machines stop working. Face Nemesis is ready.]  [In Makna Forest, a three-headed Leone Telethia swoops down to do battle with a small number of soldiers with wings on their heads. One knight is knocked to the ground, with his weapon knocked out of his hand, landing at the feet of the lone female combatant in the group - the girl from Shulk's visions.] ??? Lady Melia! Withdraw to the Nopon village and let us handle this beast! Melia No, Aizel. Do you really expect me to leave you, run away and save myself? Aizel Permit us this once, Lady Melia. It is our honour and our duty to protect you with our lives. Do not fear for us. Flee! Melia I will not. I cannot return to the capital with this monster still standing! [The Telethia charges up a wave of purple of energy, which the monster then unleashes on the group.] Melia Aizel! Hogard! [The Telethia dashes past, knocking Melia to the ground. She gets back up as the Telethia circles in. Melia's staff begins to glow with power.] Melia Aizel! Hogard! Garan! Damil! Bestow the light of your life unto me! [A burst of light shines forth from Melia's staff, converging on the Telethia and turning the screen to white.] [Meanwhile, Shulk and his companions have emerged from the Bionis' Interior to Makna Forest via the Makna Path.] Reyn Who turned up the heat? Sharla I've never seen such a dense forest. Reyn Me neither. How much further?! Dunban This must be the back of the Bionis. If Shulk's vision is right, we've still got a long way to go. Reyn You mean go on in this heat? I'm sweatier than a Brog's armpit! Sharla We'll have to search for the best route. Sadly, until we find a way, we'll have to put up with Reyn's stench. Reyn Sharla! [Shulk looks off into the distance, where the horns of the Bionis' upper regions are faintly visible. In a vision, Shulk sees the Bionis' Occipital more prominently from the top of Prison Island.] Sharla We must be outside the tower. [A vision of the shackled Giant again.] ??? Welcome, True Heir to the Monado. [With Shulk are the winged father and daughter.] Melia Father! [The two embrace as the vision shifts to Metal Face.] Metal Face Weak! Weak and pathetic! [The vision shifts again to Dunban and Melia.] Dunban What or who are you?! [The vision shifts again to Shulk in a rage.] Shulk You will pay for what you've done! [Again, Face Nemesis dodges out of the way as the vision shifts to Shulk slicing into Metal Face with the Monado.] Shulk You will know the pain and suffering you caused the Emperor and Fiora! [The vision ends with Face Nemesis being cut open and something being glimpsed inside the silver Mechon.] Shulk [inwardly] A silver-faced Mechon... And who was that girl? These visions show me people and places I've never seen. If only I could find out what they mean. We could use them to our advantage. Sharla Look over there! A rope bridge! It looks Homs-made. Dunban Not Homs, Nopon. Though a lot of them have settled in our colonies, the Nopon are originally native to Makna Forest. Reyn Do you think they'd know the way to the Bionis' head? Dunban I can't say. But walking around in circles isn't going to achieve anything. Our best bet is to look for their village. [Bionis area intro: Makna Forest] [The group continue through the lush land of Makna Forest, where waterfalls can be seen. After crossing Bridge One, the party come to a stop.] Dunban Over there! [They find Melia lying unconscious in the Contaminated Area. Sharla and Shulk are the first to reach her.] Shulk Hey, are you OK? [Shulk looks on as Sharla examines her.] Shulk You! [Shulk sees a passing vision of his party fighting a Telethia alongside this same girl.] Reyn Shulk? What's wrong? Another vision? Shulk Kind of. I'm not sure. But first, she needs help. [Shulk bends down to help Sharla pick the girl up.] Reyn You're right. Let's look for somewhere safe. [The party look around briefly.] Dunban There. I see a clearing under a giant tree. We can easily watch for anything approaching. [Shulk takes Melia in his arms.] Shulk OK. I'll carry her. [A short distance later, Shulk has set Melia down while Sharla gives her a closer examination.] Sharla She hasn't sustained any serious injuries, but her condition is far from stable. Shulk Do you know what's wrong with her? Sharla Her symptoms suggest ether deficiency. It's well-known that Homs are strongly affected by ether levels in the environment. But I've never seen symptoms like this before. [Reyn expresses confusion.] Sharla A sudden drop in ether content in the surrounding atmosphere causes a reaction. Symptoms range from fatigue to nausea, but in this girl's case... Shulk What can we do? Sharla We're gonna need Water-type Ether Crystals. I'll load the crystals into a cartridge to shoot from my rifle. Reyn You're gonna shoot her? Sharla No, silly. I'll fire them into the air and the dispersed ether will heal her. Reyn That's what I thought. Sharla But the problem is the crystals. We can't just use any old crystal, they must be as pure as possible. This area must have a water source nearby. We should search there first. Dunban I spotted a waterfall a little way back. What do you think, Sharla? Would a waterfall produce pure crystals? Sharla I can't think of a better place. Shulk Then it's decided. I'll search for the crystals. Reyn Hey, you're not going on your own! Shulk I'll be OK. I need you to look after the group. We're short on water too, so I'll fill up our flasks. Reyn Hey, good idea. Take care man! [Shulk begins the long walk back towards Great Makna Falls as the others tend to Melia.] [Later, upon collecting some Water Ether Crystals at Lakeside, Shulk stops once he hears a noise. He turns to find a strange Homs behind him - the mysterious young man from his dreams.] Shulk Who are you? ??? Hello there. [Shulk reacts uncertainly.] Shulk Hello. [The stranger walks past Shulk, then looks him over.] ??? How unusual. It is quite rare to see a Homs in this region. [Shulk struggles for words.] ??? I suppose you are wondering why I am here, in that case. Then permit me to introduce myself. My name is Alvis. Shulk Alvis? Um. My name's... Alvis It's Shulk. Isn't it? Shulk How did you know that? Alvis Wielder of the Monado. Defender of Colony 9. The hero that has every Mechon running. You're famous amongst all Homs. Shulk I know you from somewhere... [Brief flashback to Shulk's dream of this Homs, Alvis, atop Prison Island. Back in the present, Alvis looks off into the distance.] Alvis They're here! [Shulk is dubious.] Alvis The Monado emits a particular ether wavelength in its ground state. It must have drawn them. [Shulk ducks as several Puera Telethia fly overhead menacingly.] Shulk What are they? [One swoops in towards the pair.] Shulk Alvis, get out of the way! I'll deal with this myself! [Shulk activates the Monado and charges towards the beast. As he does so, the Monado shows him from which direction the Telethia will attack.] Shulk From the left? [Sure enough, the Telethia raises its right claw to attack from Shulk's left.] Shulk Then I'll go... [But just as Shulk goes right, the Telethia raises its left claw to attack from the right, smashing into Shulk and sending him hurtling backwards towards Alvis, who hasn't moved from his spot at all.] Shulk How?! [Shulk then sees a vision of the Telethia attacking from above.] Shulk Now from above! [He raises the Monado upwards to defend from this attack, but the Telethia merely attacks him from below his guard, once again shoving him painfully backwards, this time coming to rest right at Alvis' feet. The force of the attack has caused Shulk to drop the Monado.] Shulk [coughing] It can't be! I saw its movements before it struck. How can it...? Alvis It is a Telethia. Shulk Telethia? Alvis They can read your mind. Whether you have a vision or not, if they know your next move, it's all in vain. [Shulk stands slowly.] Shulk You know about my visions? How could you possibly- Alvis There is only one way. Stop it in its tracks, then dull its perception. [Alvis picks the Monado up off the forest floor and begins running towards the Telethia in a mad dash.] Shulk No, Alvis! Stop! You don't know how to- [But just then the Monado glows green as a new symbol appears within the circle in the hilt's center.] Shulk A new symbol! [Alvis swings the blade, causing the green light from the Monado to strike the Telethia. With the monster's aura now Purged, Alvis cuts off its antenna with a shout, then somersaults and slices into it again with another battle cry. The enemy explodes in a burst of green light.] Shulk That was amazing! Alvis I suggest you stop staring. [Alvis tosses Shulk the deactivated Monado. Once he catches it, Alvis suddenly appears at his side.] Alvis The sword is yours to wield. Shulk What was that light? Alvis The Monado does not control itself. You control it. Shulk I... control it. [The remaining Telethia approach Shulk's position.] Shulk By the light of the Monado, I will stop them. [Shulk activates the Monado; the green light shimmers around him as well.] [After the remaining Puera Telethia are defeated, Shulk shuts down the blade as Alvis places a hand on his shoulder.] Alvis Well? You see now, Shulk? Shulk Thank you. Hey, wait a second! More importantly, where on Bionis did you learn to use the Monado? [Alvis chuckles distractedly.] Alvis They were not the primary Telethia. Merely its spawn. [Alvis walks off towards the shore of the lake.] Alvis The primary Telethia dwells elsewhere in Makna Forest. Is it...wounded? I see. The Telethia is hurt and lies in rest. Wounded by a girl. Shulk A girl? Alvis The Monado is a divine sword capable of disturbing the very fabric of existence. [Alvis walks over and grabs the hilt of the Monado.] Alvis Of both the material and the immaterial. Shulk Alvis. How do you know so much about the Monado? Who are you? [Before the two can talk any further, they are interrupted.] Reyn [O.C.] Shulk! Shulk! [Shulk turns his back to Alvis.] Shulk That's Reyn! I'm over here! [Reyn appears around the bend and makes his way over to Shulk.] Reyn Shulk, we looked all over for you. Thought you'd been eaten by the forest! Shulk Sorry, Reyn. I got attacked by Telethia. If it hadn't been for Alvis I wouldn't have survived. Reyn Alvis? Who's that? Shulk I'll introduce you. He's the one that... [But Shulk turns around to find no one there.] Shulk Alvis? But he was... Reyn There's no one here. Shulk I'm telling you, he was right here. He even taught me how to unlock a new power from the Monado. Reyn Just you and me, Shulk. Ain't no one else around. [Shulk continues to look around the area.] Reyn You probably passed out from dehydration and dreamt this guy up. Come on. Wait 'till the others hear this. [Reyn laughs.] Shulk He was here, Reyn! I didn't dream it. I'm not lying! Reyn OK, OK. I believe you. And while you were having fun with your imaginary friend, did you find any ether crystals? Shulk Yes. Good quality ones too. Reyn Perfect. Come on. We should hurry them back to Sharla. Hang around here long enough and we'll get whacked by an imaginary beast! [Reyn laughs heartily before setting off.] Shulk I'm not lying! [Shulk turns back towards the lake.] Shulk Alvis... Who are you? [As Shulk follows Reyn up the path, Alvis watches them from a distant rock in the middle of the lake.] [A short while later, Shulk and Reyn have joined the others and are discussing Shulk's incident Lakeside.] Dunban An enemy that renders your visions useless. This forest holds many surprises. Not least creatures we've never seen before. And now we know there is another who can use the Monado. Shulk Yeah. Dunban I can't wait to meet him. Reyn So you weren't just having a sneaky nap then? Shulk No! Reyn I'm just saying. You and Dunban are the only ones I know that can wield the Monado. How would this guy know how? [Meanwhile, Sharla has loaded the ether crystals into her rifle.] Sharla OK. Locked and loaded. Everyone, stand back. [Sharla shoots an ether blast skyward, which rains down as little blue particles of light upon Melia, causing her body to glow with healing energy.] Dunban Wow. Unbelievable. [Melia begins to stir.] Reyn She's coming round. All thanks to our medic. [Shulk leans in close to Melia and places a hand on her as she opens her eyes.] Shulk Are you OK? Melia Where am I? Shulk Everything's fine. You're gonna be... [But Melia suddenly gasps and slaps Shulk in the face.] Melia Get your hands off me! [Shulk recoils in pain as Reyn steps forward.] Reyn Hey, watch it! [Melia sees the rest of the group and becomes contrite.] Melia Forgive me. I did not mean to... Shulk Sorry if we surprised you. Melia Are you the ones who helped me? Shulk Well, something like that. [Melia gets to her feet.] Melia Excuse me. My name is Melia. Forgive my indiscretion. I have not had the pleasure of coming into contact with a male Homs. Dunban [chuckling] Coming into contact? Reyn Hey Shulk. You're creeping this lady out. Shulk Shut up, Reyn! Melia This large one is far worse. Reyn Me? [Shulk and Sharla laugh as Reyn looks hopeless. The group then turn to Melia.] Sharla Melia, is it? How did you get here, then? What, is there no one with you? Melia I must apologise, but my situation does not concern you. And I shall not be divulging anything to common passers-by. Dunban Duly noted, your ladyship. But if I were to be so bold, I'm guessing that you didn't come here alone and you weren't just taking an afternoon nap. Melia And what, may I ask, are you doing here? It is rare to see Homs venture this deep into Makna Forest. Shulk We're travelling to the head of the Bionis. We've got a long journey ahead of us. Melia The head of the Bionis? Reyn We were just figuring out how to get there when we found you. Melia I see. Then permit me to return the favour by aiding you in your quest. Reyn Really? Melia There is only one path to the head of the Bionis. It is the path that leads to Eryth Sea. Reyn So this Eryth Sea is at the head of the Bionis? Melia If you would be kind enough to escort me out of the forest, I will show you the way. Shulk You'd do that?! Thank you, Melia! I'm Shulk. Pleased to meet you. Melia Shulk, ah yes. Likewise. Sharla [to Reyn] She's a bit high and mighty, but she's a Homs too, right? Why is she here alone? Reyn Ain't got a clue. Ask her yourself. I'm not good with her posh accent. [Melia begins leading the way, and the others fall in line behind her. She pauses to address the group.] Melia We shall travel to the Nopon village. Shulk Nopon village?! That's where we've been heading. We reckon it's our best chance of making it to the top. Melia Since inhabiting the region, the Nopon have been a great help. You can travel to Eryth Sea from their village. Shulk It's settled. We'll make our way to the Nopon village. Melia Very well. The Nopon inhabit a giant tree. If we follow this trail, we will be safe. [Melia leads the party to the Village Entrance.] Melia This is the entrance to Frontier Village. Reyn So this big tree is where the Nopon live? [Melia walks up to the Nopon guarding the entrance, the others following.] Nopon Ah! Bird Lady! Welcome back Bird Lady! Melia I wish to speak with the village chief. Will you permit us to enter? [The Nopon moves to one side.] Nopon My pleasure, my pleasure! [Melia walks past him, then turns around to address the group.] Melia I shall take you to the village chief. Follow me. [The party enter the village behind Melia.] [Bionis area intro: Frontier Village] [The entire village is constructed inside the enormous tree, with Nopon homes situated on various levels up the tree. The party walk into Frontier Village's Central Plaza to be greeted by a gathering of Nopon residents. ] Nopon Hom Hom! Nopon Hom here Hom here! Nopon Hom who Hom who? Nopon Hom Hom everywhere! Nopon Me want touch Hom Hom! Nopon Me want nibble Hom Hom! Nopon Hom Hom taste! [This Nopon makes a spitting noise.] Nopon Hom Hom scary! [Melia steps forward to address the villagers.] Melia Nopon of Frontier Village! Melia Antiqua has returned. I request an audience with your chief. Chief, will you hear my request? Nopon Melia here. Nopon Bird Lady here. Nopon Melia back. Nopon Bird Lady back. Shulk [inwardly] Bird Lady? [Chief Dunga enters.] Dunga My dear Melia, it's good to see you again so soon. And you look so well. [Melia nods in response.] Dunga And what of your men? Melia They are at one with the Bionis. They sacrificed their lives so that I might escape. But this is not my reason for coming. These Homs need your help. Will you be so kind as to listen to their request? Dunga What could a Hom Hom need of me? Melia They require safe passage to Eryth Sea. Dunga I see no reason to deny them. And Melia, what of you? Melia I have unfinished business in this region. Once these Homs are safely on their way, I shall be on mine as well. [Melia walks off on her own.] Sharla That girl...something's troubling her. Dunban We found her half-dead and all alone. But I don't suppose she'll tell us the reason any time soon. Shulk Maybe we can help. I'll go and talk to her. [Shulk and the others find Melia alone on a balcony high atop the village, looking out over Makna Forest.] Shulk Melia. You're welcome to come with us. [Melia hangs her head.] Shulk Is it true? Were you alone in the forest? Melia That thing must be stopped by my hand. This is my pledge to those that have died. Alvis [V.O.] Is it wounded? I see... The Telethia is hurt and lies in rest. Wounded by a girl. Shulk Wounded by a girl... You don't mean you're going to fight the Telethia? [Melia turns on Shulk and inhales sharply.] Melia How do you know of the Telethia? Shulk When I went to collect the ether crystals, some Telethia attacked me. I managed to destroy them and get away. Melia You defeated Telethia?! Who are you? [Shulk explains it to her.] Melia The Monado... So that sword can... Shulk To tell the truth, they were the Telethia's spawn. Someone told me the primary Telethia is healing somewhere in the forest. It was you, wasn't it? You hurt the Telethia. [Melia begins to speak but stops.] Shulk Melia? Melia The Telethia escaped from our homeland, and I am tasked with killing it. It cannot remain free. For the sake of my people, and the Nopon, it must be stopped. Shulk Melia, we can help you defeat it, if you like. Melia Out of pity? Shulk No. Melia Why, then? Shulk It's just... I...I want... Melia Speak, Shulk. Or I shall be forced to summon the Nopon chief to interpret for me. Shulk I would like to help. Melia What could you possibly gain from aiding me? Shulk I saw it. At the top of a black tower, you and I were fighting together. Fighting that faced Mechon. I also saw you fighting a huge Telethia. Reyn It threw me the first time 'n' all. Melia Forgive me, Shulk, but what are you talking about? Reyn Shulk can see visions of the future. Melia See the future?! And you expect me to believe this rubbish? Reyn Believe what you want, lady. Same as I tell all the non-believers. Sharla That'll be me then. Reyn Oh yeah. [Reyn turns back to Melia.] Reyn In any case, the only reason we got this far was 'cos of Shulk's visions. If Shulk says he saw you in a vision, then you must be important to whatever happens next. And if you're tough enough to fight a faced Mechon, you're all right in my book. Dunban You've got my vote. A lady should not go unaccompanied onto the battlefield. Melia Excuse me! I am quite capable of dispatching the beast alone! I require no assistance of any kind! [Chief Dunga wanders over.] Dunga My dear. I apologise, but I could not help overhearing. Their offer sounds quite reasonable. The danger extends much further than our small dwelling. Makna itself is at risk. And we shall provide you with the finest warrior of our clan. Melia Chief Dunga, I... Dunga No need for thanks. He is the equal, if not better, of the Hom Hom. Reyn You do know we're listening? Dunga The chosen Nopon hero will await you below. I shall go ahead and prepare him. Please excuse me. Reyn [scoffing] A Nopon hero? Now this I have to see! Shulk Don't be like that. Let's meet him first. [The party gather back at Central Plaza at the bottom of Frontier Village.] Dunga May I introduce... Heropon Riki! [The view shifts towards the top of the village. Many Nopon are gathered around the village too.] Nopon Yay! Riki! Our Heropon! [A Nopon then drops from an upper level, his body smacking into Reyn's face, and then he's awkwardly volleyed about by the other party members.] Dunban Watch out! Sharla Get off me! Melia To you! [Melia bats him over to Shulk, who sends the Heropon back into the air flipping end over end.] Reyn Right in the... Take this, furball! [Reyn proceeds to spike Riki into the ground as the other party members wince. Shulk, Melia, Sharla and Dunban lean in for a closer look at their new companion. Riki hangs from the bridge over the water. His fellow villagers begin pelting him with mushrooms to spur him into action. The party begin shielding themselves from this onslaught and look increasingly hopeless.] Nopon Heropon! Nopon Heropon fight back! Nopon Heropon chomp chomp! Nopon Heropon go forth! Nopon Heropon get up! Nopon Heropon make Nopon proud! Dunga Silence! [The Nopon quieten down and stop throwing things. Dunga goes over and lifts up Riki by the hand.] Dunga I introduce to you this year's legendary Heropon, Riki! [Riki is held up by Dunga for all to see, but there are X's in his eyes and the Heropon is still clearly dazed from his soon-to-be companions' actions. The other five look on uncertainly. Once Riki comes to, he quickly leaps out of Dunga's grasp and greets the party.] Riki New Hom Hom friends! Meet this year's legendary Heropon, Riki! Riki live to serve! [Riki then executes an adorable winking salute. The party still appear to need some convincing, however.] Dunban A Heropon, you say? Not sure where you'll come in handy, but the more the merrier. Shulk, are these Telethia as strong as they sound? Shulk Yes. They're quick as lightning and can read your mind. Dunban A mind-reading giant bird. No problem. Shulk I can see their movement through the Monado, but even that's not enough to get the better of them. Dunban And we're going up against the daddy version. No one blink for a second. Shulk OK. Reyn Eyes wide open! Dunban And don't forget that Melia is our only chance of making it to Eryth Sea. If anything happens to our guide, it's on our heads. The Telethia is our target, but don't forget about the person standing next to you. Sharla Dunban's right. Melia I am in your debt. My weaknesses are all too apparent. Shulk No worries, Melia! Dunga Riki has been informed of the Dinobeast, what you refer to as the Telethia. Be safe, my Hom Hom friends. Riki Riki's friends, listen to Riki! Dinobeast is big and scary! Friends get ready, friends help Riki get ready! Shulk You want us to get equipment for you? Riki Riki's friend right. Hom Hom clever! Friends meet Riki when ready. Then friends and Riki leave together. Reyn Big attitude for a furry footrest. "Dinobeast is big and scary!" Great. That'll come in handy. Sharla Is it just me or did we suddenly become Nopon mercenaries? [Nevertheless, the party collect Riki's weapon from the Weapon Shop as well as Riki's armour from the Armour Shop. Once they have all of the Heropon's equipment, they meet their new friend back at Central Plaza.] Riki Ready to go! Come new friends, Riki's adventure begins! Reyn Riki? You do know where the Telethia is, don't you? Riki Of course Riki know! [Riki turns to Melia.] Riki Melly! Riki hear you hurt Dinobeast! Melia I did. But only a little. Riki When Dinobeast hurt, Riki know it go to place with ether crystals. Friends and Riki go to place with crystals. Then we find Dinobeast! Chief tell Riki! Chief always right! Reyn So you do know a thing or two about this monster. Guess we'll be searching for some ether crystals then. [The party begin to depart. Once they reach the Nopon Tower, Shulk stops Riki.] Shulk Riki? Why are you the Heropon? Riki Why? Because Chief Dunga choose Riki! Shulk He chose you? So you weren't chosen from birth? Riki Friend wrong. Chief choose by instinct! Reyn By instinct?! Riki Why friend surprised? Chief have sharp instinct. Chief be village seer! Dunban So that's how you became the Heropon? Can't argue with that. Shulk But he is kind of...compact...for a warrior hero. [Riki sighs.] Riki Riki owe lots of monies to village. If Riki defeat Dinobeast, village promise to forget my debts. So Riki like being Heropon! [Riki leads the party to the Decayed Forest in Makna. This part of the forest is a blighted wasteland.] Riki What is this? Riki never see before! This not Riki's Makna! Riki never see before! Melia To think it has caused this much damage. Sharla What do you mean? Dunban Are you telling me the Telethia did this? Melia Telethia absorb and drain the surrounding area of all its ether. Shulk That's it! The Telethia is sucking up all the ether, which is causing the natural environment to change. Melia Shulk, the Telethia can read your mind. Expect it to know what you will do before you do it. Shulk I know. I'll aim for its antenna and stop its ability to read my thoughts. With the Monado at our side, it doesn't stand a chance. Melia It is much more powerful than its offspring. Do not expect it to fall so easily. Shulk I won't. But we have to trust in the Monado. Melia [inwardly] Shulk has only met Telethia once, and they were merely the spawn. So why is he so sure of himself? Is it confidence or a trust in something? Yes. It is trust. He trusts in the power of that sword. What did he say it was called? The Monado? I see... [The group walk across the withered grass but are interrupted by a Telethia's roar. The Leone Telethia bursts in suddenly, causing Shulk to duck.] Reyn Stick together everyone. Riki Dinobeast! Big as Riki imagined! [The Telethia roars again as Shulk activates the Monado.] Melia The Telethia! [Melia steps forward, in front of the group.] Melia I take this chance to bring vengeance for my brethren and fulfil my duty! Shulk! I will trap it and cease its movement. Strike when the time is right! [Melia rushes towards the beast.] Shulk Melia! [Shulk runs after her. Melia activates ether from her staff and flings it at the Telethia.] Melia Be still! [The light strikes the Telethia, holding it in place. The others rush in.] Reyn Oh yeah! She's nifty with that staff. Sharla I knew it. She can control ether energy without using catalysts or rifle shells. Dunban I've heard that such people exist. But I never thought she would be one. [The group stand next to Melia, who then runs towards their quarry.] Dunban Shulk, Reyn, Sharla! Protect Melia at all costs! Reyn On it! Sharla Right! [Shulk charges towards the monster last of all, the Monado blazing with light.] [At the end of the ensuing battle, Sharla hits the Leone Telethia with rifle shots while Dunban strikes it with his sword, severing an appendage. Riki laughs victoriously as Dunban lands. But a moment later, the Telethia regenerates the appendage in a burst of green light.] Dunban What the?! Riki Dinobeast grown back thing! Dunban You've got to be kidding me! [The Telethia roars, fully rejuvenated.] Sharla It's no good. My ether shots are having no effect. Shulk Its regenerative power is too much! [Melia steps up past the group.] Melia It is all right, Shulk. Destroying the Telethia is beyond us! We should cut our losses and mourn those who perished. Shulk Never, Melia! The men you lost... I can tell they were dear to you. I know only too well that desire for revenge. And the crushing pain of losing those close to you. [Momentary flashback to Metal Face in Colony 9.] Shulk I can't stand by and let another person experience what I have. [The Monado's glow now changes from blue to green.] Shulk This monster is going down! I'll trap him with the Monado! Then the rest of you, hit the Telethia with everything you have! Melia Thank you. Shulk Ready? [Melia nods her readiness.] [Near the end of this next battle, the Telethia begins to go berserk, causing Riki to scamper away in fright.] Reyn Riki! [The Telethia's tail strikes Riki, sending him crashing to the ground, moaning. The monster rushes in to finish him off, but Shulk stops it with green light pouring from the Monado. The others dash in.] Sharla Now! Dunban! Dunban Bite on this! [Dunban leaps and stabs one of its heads, while Reyn stabs a leg. Dunban struggles to hold on while the beast flips its head about.] Shulk Now, Melia! Finish him! [Melia powers up her staff with brilliant light, then strikes the ground, the light covering the Telethia completely. The sphere of light then collapses inwards, and when it's gone, so is the Telethia. The party regroup afterwards.] Sharla Brilliant thinking. Even though the Telethia can absorb large amounts of ether energy and regenerate at an incredible rate... Absorbing so much energy caused it to implode. Dunban Who would have thought? Brute force wins again. Nothing like an old-fashioned scrap. Dickson would have been proud. Shulk It was the only way I could think of. If there had been another way... Reyn Don't listen to Dunban. Soon you and that Monado will be unstoppable. Shulk It's like at Tephra Cave. It was almost natural, instinctive. The Monado responded to me, and I harnessed a new power. Reyn You'll get your chance, Shulk. We'll turn that faced Mechon into scrap. Shulk I know. That's what keeps me going. Melia Hogard, Garan, Damil, Aizel. Are you there? I did it. It's dead. Did you see? [Melia turns back to the group.] Melia I thank you for your aid in my cause. Justice has been served. Shulk You're welcome. Besides, it was mostly you. [Riki revives.] Riki Dinobeast! Heropon Riki ready for round two! [Riki looks around at the others, who look back at him.] Riki Hey! Fight over already? No! Riki not know! Dunban I'm afraid it's all finished. Reyn We couldn't have done it without you, brave little Heropon! [Reyn snorts with laughter.] Riki Riki brave! Reyn also a little brave. Riki happy happy! [Later, back at Frontier Village, there is celebration.] Nopon Heropon Riki be proud! Nopon Heropon Riki tough guy! Nopon Heropon Riki bestest! Reyn Look at him. Barely hit a toe and he gets all the praise. Sharla Let him have his glory. A few days ago the villagers wouldn't give him the time of day. Besides, won't you miss him just a little bit? Riki Chief Dunga! Riki beat Dinobeast! Does Riki still have debt? Dunga No Riki. Your debts are repaid. However, while you were gone, your littlepons ate like ravenous Orluga. It set Chief Dunga back quite a bit. [Chief Dunga turns to the rest of the village.] Dunga Nopon of Frontier Village! A new prophecy has been told! Our Heropon, slayer of Dinobeast, will further his legend by accompanying the Hom Hom on their travels! And bringing peace to the lands of Bionis! Riki Riki never hear this! Dunga It was prophecised many years ago. Riki Chief lying! Chief make up prophecy one minute ago! Riki mad! Dunga Riki. Go with these people. For the sake of the village, you must go. My instinct is never wrong. Riki *groan* Dunga Do not worry Riki. Your littlepons will be taken care of. [Chief Dunga chuckles as Riki's littlepon come forward.] Nopon Dadapon! Stomach rumble! Nopon Dadapon! Need food! Nopon Dadapon! Need food now! Reyn Dada? Riki, what on Bionis is going on? Riki Friends, meet Riki wifeypon and littlepon. Reyn You have got to be joking! Shulk Wife and children?! Riki, how old are you?! Riki Riki have 40 years! Friends look puzzled. Shulk Not puzzled...just surprised! [Riki's wife, Oka, comes towards him.] Oka Riki. Oka borrow monies for littlepons' food. Chief Dunga know best! Riki must work for littlepons to have good life. Riki Riki will! OK, Oka. Riki happy to join friends! Reyn Reyn happy too! Come on, furball. [Chief Dunga then turns to Melia.] Dunga Now you can return with your head held high, my dear. Melia Indeed. Thank you, Dunga. My thanks for your gracious help. Dunga Not at all! Peace has been restored to the Makna region. On behalf of all Nopon, thank you! Sharla Chief Dunga is very fond of Melia. Reyn Same Hom Hom, different world. Not fair if you ask me. Melia Chief Dunga. Will you kindly grant these Homs passage to Eryth Sea? It is my promise to them. Dunga Without question! These Hom Hom fought valiantly in aid of our village. And a request by you, my dear, cannot go unanswered. I shall inform the villagers at once. Melia You are too kind. [Melia comes over to the others.] Melia The Chief has spoken. You should depart for Eryth Sea at once. Prepare your things and see me when you are ready. [After these preparations are made, the party meet Melia at the top level of the village, across from the Mysterious Sanctuary.] Shulk Melia. What will you do now? Melia I would like to repay you for your help. Permit me to act as your guide to Eryth Sea. Shulk Of course! We'd love you to. Melia But I must warn you. Eryth Sea is vast. Do you know where you wish to go? Shulk There's a dark tower at the head of the Bionis. I saw it in a vision. That's where I must go. Melia A dark tower? Then we need not search at all. Shulk So you've heard of it? Melia Heard of it? I have seen it. A dark tower at the head of the Bionis. Only one place fits that description. Sharla So you know it? Melia I believe what you saw was Prison Island. Reyn Prison Island. Dickson said the same thing. Dunban Indeed. Melia, have you ever been there? Melia I have not set foot upon the island, but I know of it. Prison Island is sealed. No one may enter without imperial sanction. Dunban Imperial sanction? That means we'll be needing someone to grant us entry. I've heard that Eryth Sea is home to an empire ruled by the High Entia. They might be our best chance. Melia You are knowledgable for a Homs. Reyn Sanctions, empires? Anyone help here? Sharla A sanction is permission from someone important. An empire must be a place ruled by an Emperor. In other words, we need an Emperor's permission to enter the island. Reyn This Emperor... Is he important? Dunban Long before we Homs built the colonies... A group of so-called royal-types or imperials ruled our lands. Think of them like the heads of our colony. But with much greater influence and power. Reyn Now I get it. Dunban knows more than a textbook! Sharla Are you kidding? That's first year Homs history, Reyn! Reyn I might have slept through that class... So when do we get to meet these High Entia folks? Sharla You are so... Forget it. Melia First we must travel to the imperial capital. Dunban We'll see how easy it is to see this Emperor. Melia My promise was to be your guide. I will not break it. [Melia begins walking ahead.] Shulk Melia, isn't that the... [Melia pauses at a rope bridge leading up.] Melia The shortcut to Eryth Sea, yes. [Melia and Riki lead the party to Apex Lake at the top of Frontier Village. After speaking to the Transport Guide at Contemplation Terrace in front of the lake and agreeing to be taken to Eryth Sea, the group walk to the lake's edge. There, a column of light forms in front of them, stretching all the way up to the water-filled sky. There is a ball of light at the base of this column.] Reyn What is it?! Riki Friends, jump in ball! All go to Eryth! Reyn Jump? In that? You're nuts, furball! Melia You have nothing to fear. This will take us to Eryth Sea. [Melia walks into the ball of light, followed by Riki, then Shulk, Dunban and Sharla, leaving Reyn all alone. After much hesitation, he goes in after them. The ball of light then travels upwards.] [Meanwhile in a dark laboratory, a High Entia woman studies a Telethia behind a glass case that appears to be in hibernation.]  [Bionis area intro: Eryth Sea] [The party find themselves at Latael Shore on Eryth Sea. A vast sea lies before the group, with islands and reefs floating high above.] Reyn Who would've thought Eryth Sea was right on top of Riki's village. Dive deep enough, you can reach their tree! [Sharla puts a palm to her face.] Dunban Perhaps you should try? Reyn Might do. Haven't decided yet. [Melia looks at Shulk.] Melia Is something wrong? Shulk Aren't you curious... About why we're going to Prison Island, I mean? Melia It is not common for Homs to visit this region. You may have good reason, but forgive me. I do not pry into other people's business. Reyn It's definitely bugging her, Shulk. Melia How dare you! You clown! Shulk It's OK, Melia. We're not strangers anymore. Melia Well, I... You are right. Shulk So then you'll listen to our story? [Melia hesitates; Reyn nods at her.] Melia Yes. Tell me why you are here. Shulk Basically, it all started when... [Shulk proceeds to tell her the whole story.] Melia I see. I had heard about the Mechon assault on the lower regions, but did not know the situation was so grave. How lucky we are... Sharla Hey, what's that? [The group look up to see a dark tower floating above Eryth Sea.] Shulk Is that...? Melia You are looking at Prison Island. Shulk So that's Prison Island... Melia Yes. And that is the imperial capital, Alcamoth. [The group turn to see a large bright city of floating pods and spires opposite Prison Island.] Reyn It's not just me, right? A floating city is a bit weird? Melia Built with superior defences in mind. Shulk Incredible. What technology makes this possible? Melia I do not know. And I have never had the need to. Reyn You don't know? It doesn't freak you out? Dunban You can eat bread without knowing how to bake it. Makes sense to me. Melia You will need imperial sanction to enter Prison Island. Shulk OK. Melia We will travel to the capital first. Reyn And how do you expect us to get up there? Fly? Melia There is a transporter up ahead. We can use that. [The view momentarily shifts to this transporter before returning to the party on the shore.] Reyn We've been deep sea diving, now we're gonna fly? This place gives me the creeps. But I guess we don't have a choice. Right, onwards to the capital! Dunban Still... Shulk What is it, Dunban? Dunban It's a sight to behold. [The view shifts to some automated craft flying near the capital.] Dunban Those look like anti-Mechon defence systems. [Eventually, as the party arrive at the Centre Gate, which will take them into Alcamoth, a group of High Entia Imperial Guards emerge from the transporter.] Reyn Who are these guys? Shulk Are those wings on their head?! They must be High Entia! [The guards kneel.] Imperial Guard Welcome home, Lady Melia. Dunban Lady? Shulk Huh. [Melia walks up to the guards.] Melia Thank you, Captain. These Homs and this Nopon are my guests. See them safely to the guest quarters. Give them anything they need. Imperial Guard As you wish. Reyn What's going on? Sharla I have no idea. Shulk Melia, are you...? [Just then, Shulk receives a vision: Melia, wearing a ceremonial mask, is kneeling in a strange room alone. Suddenly, she cries out in panic, and the vision is over.] Shulk Melia. Melia I cannot speak now. But I shall fulfil my promise. Shulk I understand. Melia I will arrange for an audience with the Emperor. Will you wait? Shulk We won't move an inch. Trust me. Melia My thanks. [Melia gives a short bow, then walks into the transporter taking her inside the city. The Imperial Guards follow suit, leaving the party alone.] Dunban 'Lady Melia', he says. Shulk, you thinking the same as me? Shulk Whatever her position is here, Melia won't let us down. Dunban I'm sure you're right. [Someone else emerges from the transporter.] Sharla Huh?! [Three Imperial Guards come towards them.] Reyn More of these guys? [The party look around in confusion as the guards stand their ground.] [Meanwhile, Melia arrives at the Main Entrance in Alcamoth.] Melia [inwardly] I must report the Telethia's defeat to His Majesty and request entry to Prison Island. [She walks forward a few steps.] Melia [inwardly] Shulk is depending on me. I must hurry to the Audience Chamber. [Melia continues on her way, emerging in the capital proper.] [On the upper floor, a High Entia woman, Yumea, watches Melia proceed towards the Imperial Palace; Yumea is attended by a masked Entia woman, Tyrea, who kneels before her.] Yumea You say the Second Consort's child survived her ordeal? Tyrea Forgive me, First Consort. I, Tyrea, vow to see your orders fulfilled. Yumea Whilst she is in the capital? Do not underestimate the lengths to which His Majesty and the child's loathsome goons will go. How, pray tell, will you avoid the guards? Tyrea I will do whatever it takes. Yumea Oh, your stupidity bores me. [Tyrea attempts to speak, but Yumea cuts her off.] Yumea Enough of your drivel. [A third High Entia woman enters.] ??? We will have our chance. Once she stakes her claim to the throne. [As she walks towards the other two, we see that this third woman is the same one from the Telethia Laboratory.] [Bionis area intro: Imperial Capital Alcamoth] [Melia takes a conveyor ramp through the tree-lined imperial capital as Alcamoth citizens around her go about their business. She arrives at the Imperial Palace and enters the Audience Chamber. There, Melia kneels before Emperor Sorean Antiqua, bowing her head. Kallian the crown prince is by the Emperor's side while Lorithia (the one who had just spoken to Yumea and Tyrea) stands at a distance.] Melia Melia Antiqua, First Princess, has returned, Your Majesty. Sorean Raise your head. Melia Your Majesty. [Melia raises her head to look at Emperor Sorean.] Sorean The Telethia rained havoc on countless veteran knights. You triumphed where they could not. [The Emperor laughs victoriously.] Sorean I find it difficult to suppress these feelings of pride for you, my kin. Melia But, Your Majesty, I failed to return with any of the subjects you entrusted to me. My inexperience cost them their lives. Sorean We will grieve for them, but it could not have been avoided. It was their duty and honour to fight beside you. They were all aware of your limits. Melia Emperor. Sorean Keep those feelings of frustration close to you. It will help you to remember the debt you owe to those that have fallen. Melia Your Majesty, concerning such debts, there were others who aided me. Kallian The Homs and Nopon that accompanied you to the capital? They have been arrested by Imperial Security. [Melia rises.] Melia Shulk and his companions? Kallian Yes. For reasons pertaining to the weapon this Shulk possesses. Melia Shulk's weapon... Do you mean the Monado? Kallian So it is true. If that weapon is truly the Monado, we shall be forced to take action. Melia Why?! [Shift to a view of a fountain in the Great Hall with a mural above it, depicting the battle between the Bionis and the Mechonis.] Kallian There is a legend, passed down through the generations. Of a divine weapon - the Monado. It is said that the Bionis itself bestows the blade upon a chosen one. However, if the chosen one is black of heart, he will cause the destruction of the High Entia. [The view returns to the conversation in the Audience Chamber.] Sorean Among High Entia exist the good and bad alike. Homs and Nopon are no different. If this boy is the chosen one... Kallian The divine seer's interrogation will reveal where his allegiances lie. Melia So you intend to keep them confined? Sorean We must. Melia Father! I mean... Your Majesty! I assure you Shulk is of pure heart! [Emperor Sorean steps down from his dais.] Sorean As my successor, you will play a role of great importance. Calm your spirit and be patient. Melia I... Kallian Dear sister, I can see the Emperor's words have confused you. [Kallian walks over to Melia.] Melia Brother. Kallian His Majesty has spoken. He recognises you as the crown princess. You are to be the next ruler of the High Entia. Melia Me? And not you? Kallian Yes. The Emperor asked for my counsel, and I told him as I tell you now. You will make a fine Empress. There is no one more suited to leading our people. You proved that when you dispatched the Telethia. Melia I don't know what to... Kallian Melia. Melia But the soldiers... I am not fit to rule. I should visit their families and beg for pardon. Kallian Melia, you know that this is not allowed. Melia I know, but it does nothing for the guilt I feel. Kallian It is as the Emperor said. Grieve their departing, and engrave in your heart their great deeds. Melia I will. Kallian You are right to question these things. But take pride in who you are. The Emperor has chosen wisely in you, Melia. [Kallian walks away.] Melia I am to be crown princess. Lorithia Yes, you are. [Lorithia walks over to Melia.] Lorithia The Ministries of Research and Records are united in support of His Majesty's decision. I, Minister Lorithia, have no objection to your appointment. Melia I understand. Lorithia I would never openly question our divine emperor. But the wielder of the Monado, the chosen one, might be a useful tool. Melia You think so too? Lorithia Yes. But a lowly servant of the realm such as myself could never question His Majesty. However, if the divine seer were to intervene... Melia The seer could free Shulk? Lorithia They should be exchanging words as we speak. [Meanwhile, the rest of the party are imprisoned in Whitewing Palace, overlooking the city through the large windows in their room.] Reyn Idiot birdbrains! What did we do? A fancy prison is still a prison. Sharla What happened to Melia? I don't see her locked up in here with us. Reyn Exactly! She's in on this! Dunban Shulk, any thoughts here? Shulk Melia won't let us down. She promised to take us to Prison Island. And she's not the kind of person to break a promise. Reyn OK, Shulk, you win. I believe you. And if you believe Melia, then no arguments from me. [Shulk then proceeds to talk to each of his friends in turn, after which two Imperial Guards enter the room.] Imperial Guard You are to be interrogated by the divine seer. Stand back. [The door opens, and Alvis enters.] Shulk Alvis?! What are you doing here? [Shulk then explains to Alvis what's been going on.] Alvis I see. So that is why you are here... Shulk Is Melia OK? We didn't mean to cause her any trouble. Alvis Rest assured. She is fine. The real reason you have been detained is not because you are outsiders. Shulk You don't mean...? Alvis Yes. The Monado. You see, the High Entia and the Monado go back many years. Millennia, in fact. [Shulk makes a noise of uncertainty.] Alvis Leave everything to me. I shall see to it that you are not held for long. We cannot have the saviours of Her Highness treated as criminals now, can we? [Alvis walks over to the Imperial Guards.] Alvis Free these people. I shall take responsibility for their actions whilst inside the capital. They are now guests of the imperial family. Imperial Guard Sir! [Alvis turns back to the party.] Alvis I am required to report to His Majesty, otherwise I would escort you around the capital. Use this room at your leisure. You are free to roam the city or stay here and rest. [Alvis turns to leave.] Alvis Farewell. Shulk Hold on, Alvis. I need to ask you- Alvis Be patient. I know what it is you wish to ask. Do not fear. You will learn when the time is right. [Alvis and both guards then exit the room.] Reyn The life of the rich! So where are we going? Sharla Anywhere but here. I'm bored of this stuffy room. Shulk OK then. Riki Riki find Melly for Shulk! [Riki begins to trot off.] Shulk Riki! Wait! [The door opens.] Imperial Guard Your Eminence! [The Imperial Guard comes into the room.] Riki What guard want? Dunban If you're after Alvis, he's gone. Imperial Guard What? Where did he go? Shulk What happened? Imperial Guard We received an SOS from a small squadron repairing a transporter at Eryth Sea. But the transmission was interrupted, and we have lost all contact with the squadron! Reyn Sounds like they need our help. Riki Shulk and Riki go help! Riki and friends help people in trouble! Shulk Of course. We're happy to help. Imperial Guard But you're outsiders... Riki Soldier man not worry! Heropon Riki is here to save the day! Imperial Guard It is most appreciated. We need all the help we can get. [Later, as the party are helping the repair worker at Eryth Sea, Alvis reports to Emperor Sorean in the Audience Chamber, who is now flanked by Prince Kallian and First Consort Yumea.] Alvis And that is the extent of my discussions with the Homs that accompanied Melia here. Kallian I still cannot believe it. How could a Telethia have grown to such power? Sorean And what is your conclusion, Seer? Alvis That the Telethia were able to gain such power due to the high levels of ether in the region. In other words, our ether protection is weakening. Sorean And so it begins. The resurrection of the Bionis. What of the Monado? Alvis I cannot see. My 'sight' is hindered. However... Sorean Speak, Seer. Alvis It is not certain that the Monado will bring about our destruction. While my sight is hindered, I have seen a sliver of light. Is Your Majesty not aware of this light as well? Sorean Are you referring to Melia? Alvis And the young man, Shulk. Sorean Could it be that the boy is trustworthy after all? Kallian, we are on the cusp of a significant moment. The investiture ceremony must take place as soon as possible. Kallian Your Majesty. Since the ministries are already in agreement, we may be able to bypass some of the formalities. Sorean Indeed. But she must still earn the blessing of the people. Yumea Might I suggest the trial of the Tomb? Sorean First Consort, such a ritual has not been conducted for generations. Yumea We have simply not had a need for it until now. And I feel that she is more than equal to the challenge. Kallian Mother, the Tomb is dangerous. Our records show that many potential successors lost their lives performing the ritual. Yumea That child fought and beat the Telethia. It is my belief that she is more than strong enough. Besides, if it was revealed that she avoided such a responsibility, her reputation among the people would be irreparably damaged. Kallian I must protest! Sorean No, no, no... The First Consort is right. There is much risk, but the rewards are greater. It would seal the people's love for her. Summon Melia. Her thoughts must be heard. [Later, Melia appears kneeling before the Emperor.] Melia I accept. [Melia looks up at the Emperor, the prince and the First Consort.] Melia If I am to lead the High Entia despite my mixed heritage... If I am to succeed the throne, then I accept what must be done. Sorean I expect nothing less of my successor. The path to greatness is fraught with danger. This shall be your statement to Bionis. Melia Yes, Your Majesty. Yumea [inwardly] You are not fit to be Empress. Not now, not ever. [Alvis looks significantly at Yumea.] [Elsewhere, at the Ether Crystal Deposit on Eryth Sea, Shulk and his companions have completed their quest and saved the worker who was attacked by Kromars.] Shulk Looks like we got them out of a scrape! Riki Shulk! Riki tired. [Riki yawns.] Riki Riki sleep in castle now. Reyn Good idea. Let's head back to the capital. Sharla The sooner the better! [The group return to Whitewing Palace, where they tell the Palace Attendant that they wish to rest.] [The next morning, the party look out at the activity in the capital through their windows in Whitewing Palace. There are throngs of High Entia gathered on the streets below.] Shulk Everyone's gathered outside. Reyn How come we didn't get invited?! Shulk It looks like some kind of ceremony... [From Sky Terrace above the imperial city, Emperor Sorean comes out to address the people. Melia is with him, wearing the Empress Mask. Prince Kallian and First Consort Yumea are present as well.] Sorean My loyal and beloved subjects. Sorean Antiqua speaks. I have been your Emperor for little more than twenty years. But today I stand before you in celebration. Dunban So that's the High Entia Emperor. Shulk Sorean Antiqua. Sorean I will remain your Emperor for years to come. But now is the time to announce my successor. My I introduce your crown princess... [Melia steps forward.] Dunban And there's the lady herself. Sorean Melia Antiqua! Shulk It's her. Reyn She's a princess?! Dunban Took you long enough. Sharla Her silver spoon accent was a clue, but royalty? [The High Entia below discuss this news amongst themselves.] Sorean My daughter, Melia Antiqua, will depart immediately to face the Tomb. [There is an increased clamour among the people.] Sorean She will seek the approval of our ancestors and become your crown princess! [Melia bows before Emperor Sorean. The people below are quiet now. Meanwhile, Shulk receives another vision: Melia is kneeling inside an ornate hall but cries out in dismay as she's attacked by a Telethia from behind, which steals her life force from her, absorbing her ether energy.] [Back in the present, Yumea walks out of the ceremony while Kallian remains with Melia and the Emperor. Yumea makes her way back into the Great Hall.] Yumea The people are fickle. No mask can hide that girl's contaminated blood. [Tyrea, still wearing her own mask, kneels before Yumea.] Tyrea First Consort, all the pieces are in place. Say the word and the captive Homs shall be no more. Yumea The savage who discovers fire remains a savage. Disappointed or not, His Highness will turn a blind eye to their fate. [Unseen by either of the two, Kallian walks into view behind them.] Yumea And their removal will deprive Melia of some powerful allies. Tyrea As you say. Kallian Mother? Yumea We continue to endure the contamination of our bloodline by perpetuating this wretched tradition of a High Entia First Consort and a Homs Second Consort. For how long must I suffer these Homs?! Do your duty, Tyrea. Tyrea As you wish. [Tyrea rises.] Kallian That mask... [Meanwhile at Whitewing Palace, Shulk and his friends react to the announcement they've just heard.] Shulk Melia... Dunban I don't doubt that was Melia, but why the mask? Shulk I don't know... But she's different from the other High Entia. Sharla How do you mean? Riki Melly not like other Bird People. Melly like Hom Hom friends. Dunban You might be right. But there are things at play here we can't understand. Shulk Wait a minute! Reyn You'll give a Homs a heart attack shouting like that. Shulk We've got no time to lose! Melia needs our help! Reyn Again? You had another vision, didn't you? Sharla What did you see? Reyn Out with it already! [Just then, five masked High Entia assassins enter the room.] Dunban Excuse me. We ordered room service an hour ago. ??? I'm afraid you've already eaten your last meal. [Shulk's party successfully put down the assassination attempt. After the battle, all five assassins lie on the floor at their feet, motionless but still breathing.] Reyn Who are these guys? [The door opens.] Alvis Shulk! [Alvis walks over to survey the carnage.] Alvis These are Inquisitors? [The door opens again.] Kallian What is this? [Kallian and two Imperial Guards enter.] Reyn More of them! Alvis Wait. This is His Highness Kallian. Brother to Her Highness Melia. Shulk Melia's brother? Alvis Do not concern yourself, Your Highness. The matter appears to have been resolved. Kallian Seer Alvis. Alvis I foresaw the danger. I rushed here but seemed to have missed the fun. Kallian They do not look like mere thieves. Alvis I am presuming they are Inquisitors of the Bionite Order. A group of assassins long devoted to the imperial family. Kallian Ridiculous. The Bionite Order are a mere... Alvis Myth. The order existed before records began. I, like many others, believed they had long since died out. Yet here they are before us. Kallian Is Father aware of this?! Alvis I suspect he knows very little. He may not even be aware of their existence. They live amongst the shadows. Never revealing their true faces. Kallian But that does not explain why they would attack these people. [Momentary flashback to Yumea and Tyrea in the Great Hall.] Kallian Wait, could that have been... No! There's no way! Shulk Kallian! Melia is in danger! She'll be killed at an altar if we don't find her soon! Kallian Killed?! How can you be so sure? Alvis Shulk and I share the same gift. Kallian Another seer? Which would mean that... You can see the future?! Shulk That's why we have to find her! Now! [Meanwhile, elsewhere on Eryth Sea, Lorithia and a pair of Imperial Guards accompany Melia to the High Entia Tomb. They stop at the entrance.] Lorithia Your Highness. As agreed, you will face the ritual alone. Melia I thank you for escorting me. Lorithia We wish you a safe return. As history has proven, all those who stake claim to the throne without merit will spend eternity as fallen spirits. Melia I must prove my worth as the next ruler. And I am no less prepared to sacrifice my life than those that have fallen before me. Lorithia Most wise, Your Highness. [Melia sets off for the Tomb, leaving Lorithia and the guards alone.] Lorithia Watch your back, Your Highness. [Lorithia blows Melia a kiss.] [Back at Whitewing Palace, Shulk's conversation with Kallian continues.] Kallian Unacceptable. Those who enter the Tomb must do so alone. [Kallian goes over to face the party as a whole.] Kallian Her life, or death, is in the hands of fate. Those not worthy of the throne are exactly that! Reyn You can't seriously think that? This is your sister! This is Melia! Dunban Easy, Reyn. Reyn But Dunban! Dunban This ritual holds a special significance. It is wrong for us to interfere. Reyn I don't like it! Dunban But am I right in saying that the rules of this ritual affect only High Entia? And if some strange Homs happened to get involved, it wouldn't cause a problem? Or is there some rule that prohibits Homs from entering the Tomb? Kallian No, I suppose not. Dunban Then look at it this way. I don't need to know how big a deal this ritual is to your people. What I do know is that your sister's life is at stake. Cut us a break, and we'll save her. Kallian Who are you? Dunban My name is Dunban. I'm sort of the protector of this Mechon-bashing band of Homs. Kallian Dunban. I know you. At the Battle of Sword Valley, you held back an entire wave of Mechon with the Monado. Dunban You know a lot about a battle you never showed up to. Kallian My apologies. We do not concern ourselves with the wars of others. Be it against the Mechon or otherwise. Dunban I was only joking! You had your reasons. I can see that with all these defence systems you don't really need to fight. Alvis Then it is decided. [The party turn around to face Alvis.] Alvis You can reach the Tomb by transporter from the Centre Gate. Her Highness has already entered. Shulk, you should hurry. [Led by Alvis, Shulk and his companions make their way to the entrance of the High Entia Tomb.] Alvis This is the Tomb. Defensive measures prevent intruders from entering. You will have to circumvent these to move within the Tomb. Shulk One thing before we enter. Alvis, you can see the future, like me? Alvis I am from a long line of seers dedicated to serving the imperial family. My visions help to protect the empire. Shulk But you're a Homs... Alvis Yes. But that is for another time. My ancestry is not easily explained. And my ability to see the future is equally complicated. You might say I have my own ritual. Is it not the same for you? Shulk No. My visions appear suddenly, without warning. At first, they're obscure. Then as it gets closer to the event, I start to understand. Alvis It seems you possess a power greater than I. I still have not seen any danger befall Her Highness. Reyn Not much use as a seer then, are you? Alvis Nothing passes you by, does it? Now you see why I asked for your help. What a lucky coincidence that I happened to see you in danger. Reyn A coincidence?! Shulk But I've seen you use the Monado! Alvis The Monado has been passed down the imperial line for generations. The sword of the Bionis. It is compelled to do its master's bidding. Magnified greatly, it has the power to control the very fabric of our world - ether. Control the ether and your will is made reality. I willed it, and it happened. That is all. Perhaps due to that power, the High Entia sealed away the Monado for centuries. Eventually, it found its way into the hands of the Homs, and then you, Shulk. A coincidence or something more? You must discover this yourself. For you are the one who wields the Monado. [Alvis turns towards the Tomb.] Alvis The Bionis is stirring. [The door to the Tomb dematerialises, and the group enter.] [Meanwhile, Melia is already inside the Tomb, ahead of Shulk's party.] Melia [inwardly] The ancestral altar lies deep beneath the seals. What trials await me, I wonder? I must not lose focus! [Melia arrives before the door to the Sealed Chamber and activates the Verification Device. A voice then speaks from the seal on the door.] ??? 2512 cycles since last visitor. State your name and purpose. Melia Melia Antiqua. I have come to be judged on my legitimacy to the throne by the ancestral spirits. ??? Permission granted. Commencing analysis of genetic data. [The seal lights up, and a disc of green light scans Melia from head to foot and back up again. The door dematerialises to open the way, materialising again once Melia is past it into the corridor beyond.] [Not long afterwards, Shulk's group enter this same room.] Sharla It's so cold. Dunban There are remnants of ancient spirits in here. This is no ordinary chill. Alvis As I explained before, Dunban, the defence systems are designed to prevent uninvited- [Reyn discovers a button on the Verification Device.] Reyn Well, what does this do? Alvis Don't touch... [But Reyn has already pressed the button. As before, the seal on the door lights up, and Reyn's body is scanned. The floor promptly opens up beneath them, and the entire party cry out as they fall.] [Bionis area intro: High Entia Tomb] [Meanwhile, Melia proceeds through the ornate corridors and vast halls where the same symbols that appear on the Monado are inscribed on the walls. After undergoing various trials, she comes to the Ceremony Hall and kneels at the altar, where the seal on a large door in front of her activates.] ??? You have done well, my descendant. Melia Descendant? Are you the progenitor of Antiqua? ??? Think of me as a recreation of said ancestor, possessing his thoughts and speech. Melia But he passed away thousands of years ago. ??? Do not mistake me for a living being. I am a replica of your ancestor. I am merely a projection of what he would be, if you were to meet him now. Melia I do not understand. But I do not suspect any falsehood in your words. ??? It is beyond doubt. If I could feel, I would feel joy. I am not real, but I do not lie. Melia Joy? What do you mean? ??? The results of the gene analysis show Homs gene integration of 80%. Estimates suggest evolution within eight generations. Our wishes are almost fulfilled. Melia Wishes? ??? Our purpose, as decreed by the Bionis, is linked to our genetic sequence. We have spent millennia analysing sequences to free ourselves from the curse. Only a certain gene set will unlock the mechanism and set us free. Melia I still do not understand. ??? It is of no consequence. I grant you this seal. [A beam of light is emitted from the door towards Melia, and a royal seal lights up on the Empress Mask.] Melia Is this...? ??? It is you who will rule the High Entia. And likely be their last. Melia Revered Ancestor... I... ??? Go forth and rule, my descendant! Tyrea [O.C.] So, the spirits look favourably upon you. [Melia turns to see Tyrea and gasps in surprise. Both are wearing masks.] Melia Explain yourself. Only imperials are permitted to enter this place. Tyrea I am the subject of Her Highness the First Consort. I need no permission! Melia Mother's subject? Tyrea No impure child of the Second Consort has the right to refer to the First Consort as 'Mother'. Melia I... Tyrea A filthy Homs half-breed has no right to the throne! [As Melia and Tyrea prepare to square off, elsewhere in the Tomb, Shulk's party emerge from the Tomb Robber Pool. Reyn is the last to get out of the water.] Reyn Who puts a great big hole somewhere like that?! Alvis As I explained, it's a defence mechanism. Shulk What a mess, Reyn. Riki Friend not clever touching button! Sharla I'm with these guys, Reyn. Reyn How was I supposed to know that was gonna happen? What about your visions?! You'd think the two of you could come up with something! Shulk You know it doesn't work like that. Alvis It would have been useful, yes. Reyn Pair of fortune-telling frauds. Shulk You got us into this mess! And it's not the first time either. Riki Riki agree with Shulk! Reyn Why's it my fault all of a sudden? Sharla This time it is your fault. Dunban Precisely. Reyn Well... Alvis Be thankful that we are all alive. I suggest greater care next time. Our journey will be longer, but we can still make our way deeper into the Tomb. Shulk OK. We can't waste another second. Melia needs us. [Arriving at the Valley of Emperors in the Hall of Trials, the party find a large ball of pulsating light overhead.] Reyn That is a big ball of something. Riki It look fun and sparkle! Shulk It's not attacking us at least. [The ball suddenly flashes as the ground starts shaking.] Sharla What's happening? Reyn Hey, look at that! [An Orluga Rufus drops from the ball into the party's way.] Shulk Another defence mechanism! Dunban At a guess, we're looking at the Tomb's guard. Sharla We're not getting past without a fight. Shulk Everyone, Melia needs us. We can't let this thing stop us! Reyn No problem. Time to break my record. [The monstrous guard rears up for battle, but it is defeated.] Reyn Anyone would think we're not wanted! Are we ever gonna find her? Alvis I think you'll find we had to take the long way because somebody pushed a certain button. Riki Somebody mean Reyn! Reyn Shut it, hairball. It was just a button! Alvis Relax. She will be fine. [Alvis looks towards a nearby bridge.] Alvis This route will lead us to the ritual altar. But time is of the essence. Shulk We've got to hurry. There's no time to lose! [Shulk and his team make their way through the Tomb. As the party rush to the Ceremony Hall, they can already hear the sounds of battle from within.] Tyrea A filthy Homs half-breed has no right to the throne! Shulk Melia... Half Homs? [The two masked girls are battling each other with their staffs, Tyrea pressing her advantage on the unprepared Melia. As Shulk and his companions arrive, a Solidum Telethia descends from the ceiling into the fray.] Shulk Melia! Melia Shulk?! [The Telethia crashes to the ground separating Melia and Tyrea from Shulk and the others.] Melia A Telethia in the Tomb? Tyrea Why should you care, when you're about to meet your death? [Shulk and his friends draw their weapons and enter the fray.] [By the time the battle is over, the Telethia rages and flails, knocking Tyrea's mask off her face.] Tyrea It's not over! Telethia, kill as many of them as you can! [But a bright, withering light surrounds the Telethia.] Melia Keep clear! The Telethia is destroying itself! [Reyn runs forward, using his driver as a shield, while Alvis puts a hand up towards the creature.] Tyrea What?! [The Telethia implodes, leaving behind nothing but a faint green mist. Alvis lowers his hand.] Reyn Almost bought it. Shulk Alvis. Thank you. Alvis My pleasure, Shulk. Melia Why did you come? Shulk The Monado gave me a warning. That you were in danger. I'm just glad we made it. Reyn Hey, Shulk! Whoever that was, is gone. [There is no sign of Tyrea in the room.] Melia So they escaped. [Melia removes her Empress Mask.] Melia Shulk. Everyone. I thank you. You saved me. [The rest of the group beam at her.] Riki Riki smiley smiley! Melly all safe! All thanks to Heropon! [Reyn grabs Riki by the scruff of fur on his head.] Reyn That's not how I remember it, cheese ball. [But Melia comes over and takes Riki gently into her arms; he makes a contented sound as she holds him and smiles at the others in gratitude.] [Later, in the Audience Chamber at Alcamoth, Melia, Alvis, Lorithia and a contingent of Imperial Guards stand before Emperor Sorean and Prince Kallian.] Alvis And that concludes my report on events in the Tomb. Sorean So there are forces working in the shadows. Alvis However, this is purely circumstantial. Nothing can be proven. Sorean Inquisitors of the Bionite Order, dedicated and devoted to the Bionis. Kallian The order was dissolved under the rule of the Emperor Lumian, 47th successor to the throne, due to its extreme practices. Sorean Like puppet masters pulling the strings from the shadows. I believed their bloodline was lost to the ages. Kallian Her Highness the First Consort is currently residing in the Tower of Investigation. The Ministry of Investigation's judgement should be imminent. Sorean That may not be enough. I myself must shine a light on the truth. Kallian Agreed. Melia Mother... Sorean Melia. Melia Your Majesty. Sorean You have returned unharmed from the Tomb. The forefathers have spoken. Melia But if it hadn't been for Shulk... Sorean Kallian has informed me of what happened. There is no reason to doubt your legitimacy to the throne. Kallian Believe in yourself, Crown Princess. Melia Brother... Sorean Tomorrow will be the investiture ceremony. At the appointed time, you will become my successor. Be proud! Melia I will! Sorean [inwardly] Melia, my child. I am overjoyed at how far you have come. You are truly worthy of the throne. Continue the legacy of your High Entia and Homs bloodline. You are the hope of Bionis. [Meanwhile, Shulk's party regroup back at Whitewing Palace.] Riki Riki and friends help save Melly. Riki very happy! Dunban We're all relieved. But something's still bothering me. Sharla What is it? Dunban Why was Melia chosen as the crown princess? Shouldn't Kallian have been the one to ascend? And her foe in the Tomb clearly opposed that decision. Sharla You have a point. Dunban Kallian is more than a worthy candidate. What reason could they have for choosing Melia? And why would Kallian go along with this? Sharla It's a mystery. [The door opens, and two Imperial Guards enter.] Imperial Guard Our apologies. His Majesty the Emperor summons you. Reyn Finally! He's gonna let us into Prison Island. Shulk Yeah. Imperial Guard His Majesty awaits you in the Audience Chamber. He asks that you join him shortly. [Shulk goes to the Audience Chamber, while his companions stay a little ways behind, and presents himself before Emperor Sorean and Prince Kallian.] Sorean Shulk. Forgive us for detaining you earlier. You and I are not of the same people. But this I must say. Thank you for helping Melia Antiqua, my daughter. It was no small feat. Shulk Not at all. I too must apologise for meddling in your customs. We should not have interfered. Sorean She is a lucky girl. To have met such unselfish people. In the times to come, a ruler will need support from individuals like you. I hear you seek the Mechon. [The rest of the party are shown outside on the Sky Terrace. Reyn talks to Sharla while Riki entertains himself nearby. Dunban stands a little ways off from the others.] Shulk Yes. The Mechon devastated our homes, and we lost many loved ones. Sorean Revenge is your goal? Shulk It is. Sorean You are honest. [The view returns to the Audience Chamber.] Shulk I do not want to hide our true intentions. Our very existence is at stake. Sorean Unwavering too. Shulk, you are the master of the Monado. But there is something that must be said. Shulk What is it? Sorean Long before our forefathers built this empire... [The view shifts to the fountain mural of the Bionis and the Mechonis in the Great Hall.] Sorean Two titans - the Bionis and the Mechonis - fought a vicious battle. Is this known among Homs? Shulk Yes, it is told to us as children. The two fought and died, killing many creatures in the process. Their remains became our worlds, bringing forth new life on Bionis. That's how we were made. [The view returns to the Audience Chamber.] Sorean The Bionis shall awaken once again. Shulk Alvis told me the same thing. Sorean This is not just the vision of a seer. All of Makna knows. The Telethia are as old as the Bionis itself. And now they disturb the ether. That disturbance can only lead to one thing. Shulk But why is this happening now? [Sorean turns to a large inscription behind his throne.] Sorean This is an inscription left by our forefathers. It is written: Descendants of Antiqua, when the ether cries, the Bionis awakes. Mistake not the signs, and heed the sword's return. Trap its power and assure eternal prosperity. [Shulk sounds uncertain as the view shifts to Alcamoth as a whole.] Sorean All life born on Bionis affects the ether. The Mechon's assault is just the beginning. [The view returns to the Audience Chamber as Emperor Sorean turns his gaze back to Shulk.] Sorean And these events were set in motion when you used the sword against them. Shulk We used it because we- Sorean Because you needed to. Without it, you could not survive. I cannot dispute this fact. I believe the inscription speaks of these very events with the Mechon. But if their assault continues, if more lives are lost... Soon the Bionis will awake, and not only the High Entia, but all life will perish! Do you see, Shulk? Shulk You're talking about total extinction. Sorean Correct. Which is why the Mechon's invasion must be stopped. Shulk Then you'll help us? Your Majesty, we need imperial sanction to enter Prison Island. Will you permit us entry? Sorean What will you do there? Shulk I saw it in a vision. We will fight a faced Mechon. They must pay for what they did. Sorean Then you will have seen him too. [Shulk makes another noise of uncertainty as the view shifts to Prison Island.] Sorean On Prison Island, our forefathers sealed something away, just as they did to the Monado. All records have been lost, and there is now no way to know what it was. Shulk Is it connected to the awakening of the Bionis? [The view returns to the Audience Chamber.] Sorean I do not know. But our forefathers must have had good reason. We must trust their decision. [Shulk makes a slight huffing noise.] Sorean Shulk. Allow me some time to deliberate. Above all else, I will consider the safety of Bionis. You are our Bionis brethren. We will not ignore your plight. Shulk I understand. This is not our homeland. If you decide not to let us go, I will accept your decision. Sorean I am sorry. Shulk It's OK. Sorean One more thing. Shulk Yes? Sorean I ask this not as Emperor Sorean Antiqua, but as a father. [The view shifts to Melia walking through the garden at the Imperial Villa. She is alone.] Sorean I do not demand that you act as Melia's protector. But I would be honoured if you would be her friend. This is my humble request. [The view returns to the Audience Chamber.] Shulk It would be my honour. [Both Kallian and Sorean nod their thanks to Shulk.] [Far away, a huge gold Mechon Face with a vast tail stands in a dark fortress; Vanea can be glimpsed standing at his side.] ??? The Telethia are on the move. Vanea Yes. ??? That fleshy fool will go for the Monado. What of the Faces? Vanea Repairs to Metal are complete. ??? And Nemesis? Vanea Nemesis is... ??? The Homs with the Monado. He has reached Eryth Sea? Vanea Yes. ??? Then there is only one place for them to go. Yet he will not dare unleash such power. [Vanea makes a noise of protest.] ??? No matter. Bugs must still be exterminated. It is time to test our new toy. [View of a spear with glowing green liquid flowing through it descending into the golden Mechon's grasp.] ??? Commence the assault on Bionis. - One Month Ago - [Alvis conducts the divination ritual with Emperor Sorean. A quick series of visions follow.] [The first vision: Sorean, at Prison Island, uses his Imperial Staff to activate symbols that light up on the ground.] [Another vision: Sorean is with Melia and Shulk's party; they all look up at the shackled Giant.] [Another vision: Shulk activates the Monado.] [Another vision: Metal Face bears down on the group.] [Another vision: Melia charges up an ether attack.] [Another vision: Melia runs up to Sorean, and the two embrace.] [The final vision: Metal Face fatally stabs Emperor Sorean with metal claws.] Sorean Can this be true? [Alvis kneels before the Emperor.] Alvis It will happen soon. Sorean I saw Melia. She was fighting a battle against a Mechon with a strange group of Homs. Alvis Yes. Sorean That sword. Could it be the...? Could it possibly...? And that location. Was it...? Alvis The vision is a sign. By your will, it can be changed. Sorean For now, we must consider all things. Everything. The capital, and the lives of our people, depend on it. [The view pans to the prophetic inscription behind the throne.] [In the present day, Shulk's party and the rest of the High Entia enjoy a ceremonial air show over Alcamoth.] Reyn Wow! Take a look at that! A High Entia air show! Riki Bird People fly higher than Nopon birds! Reyn They've got some neat tricks. [The anti-Mechon defence crafts fly in formation, and there are fireworks of various colours.] Reyn Shulk, I think that's Melia up there! [View of Melia, wearing the Empress Mask again, on one of the hovering screens. Shulk and the others then turn to look up at the Sky Terrace, where Melia prepares to make her royal address.] Melia By the authority of our divine ancestors, I, Melia Antiqua, am honoured to accept the responsibility of becoming your next benevolent ruler. Should I be deemed unworthy of this calling, or fail to protect the ancestors or the Bionis, I promise here and now to throw myself on the mercy of you, the people. [The people throughout Alcamoth cheer as more fireworks go off.] Dunban Most majestic. That fragile girl in the forest is a distant memory. Sharla But which one is the real Melia? Sorean [V.O.] I ask this not as Emperor Sorean Antiqua, but as a father. I do not demand that you act as Melia's protector, but I would be honoured if you would be her friend. Shulk No, it's not like that. They're one and the same girl. I think. [Meanwhile at the Centre Gate outside Alcamoth, Alvis stands looking out over Eryth Sea. Lorithia comes to his side.] Lorithia And what did you see, Alvis? Alvis It's you. Lorithia Don't play games. Alvis No need to be angry. I only wanted to analyse the boy. Which was the point, no? [Lorithia grunts with dissatisfaction.] Alvis I did not interfere with your ministerial affairs. In fact, you should be thanking me. Lorithia I wonder if he feels the same. Alvis We have all the information we need. We know that such a Telethia cannot hurt them. [Lorithia gives Alvis a look.] Alvis You see...nothing can befall him before he sees his dream fulfilled. [The two are shown looking out across Eryth Sea towards Prison Island.] [Meanwhile, a force of Mechon Faces fly off from Sword Valley, Metal Face among them and in a restored body. The special spear created by the gold Mechon is attached to Metal Face's frame.] Metal Face Brand spanking new! Nothing like an ether change and a new paint job! [The Mechon approach the head of the Bionis. Metal Face chuckles as below him Face Nemesis flies in tandem.] Metal Face We don't need her. Look at me, look at me. Goody two shoes! Let's just see if you hold back the screams when his blade gets a taste of you! [The Mechon are then intercepted by the High Entia anti-Mechon defence systems, which open fire with green lasers.] Metal Face I love a warm welcome! Let's settle this, machine to machine! [Metal Face charges up a ball of light; when he shoots it, the screen flashes to white.] [Meanwhile in Alcamoth, Shulk's party retire to Whitewing Palace after the investiture ceremony.] Reyn So they've got a new crown princess. Three cheers for Melia. Sharla Right, but we're still no closer to that murdering faced Mechon. Shulk Once we reach Prison Island, we'll get our chance. I've seen us there. It must be true. Reyn Shulk, man. Maybe we can still persuade big wings? Melia's crown princess now, I reckon the Emperor might change his mind. Shulk Maybe. Dunban Reyn. The Emperor's request was clear. Give him time. There's more to this island than we know. Things are at play here that reach beyond our understanding. Riki Dundun right! Riki and friends visit Melly now! Reyn Hey! The adults are talking, pops! Riki Riki want to see Melly. Riki think Melly sad too. Sharla She might like the distraction. All those stiff ceremonial duties... You decide, Shulk. Riki Riki say yes! [With that, the party go to the Imperial Villa, where Melia resides. She comes out to meet them as they arrive.] Melia You came to see me? Riki Riki's friend Melly! [The group come up to Melia.] Riki Melly look amazing before! Riki so proud! Melia Really? It all happened so fast. Sharla What a stunning garden! The arrangements... The fountain... When the colony is up and running, can I steal some ideas? Melia My late mother adored this place. Reyn Late mother? But I thought your mum was... Melia Her Highness the First Consort is not my birth mother. Members of the imperial family must take two wives: one Homs, one High Entia. My mother is the Second Consort. I am half Homs, half High Entia. Sharla Melia... Riki Melly live here? Melia Yes, Riki. Since I was young. I cannot walk outside as you see me now, so this garden gives me much relief. Reyn What's wrong with how you look? Who cares if you're half Homs? You'll always be you. Dunban Their way of thinking differs from ours. Different ways, different morals. Shulk So that's why you wear a mask in public. Melia Yes. Shulk, in less than an hour there will be a banquet in the palace. I would like you all to come. Riki Riki so hungry he could even eat smelly Orluga! [Melia laughs softly.] Melia There'll be plenty to eat. Reyn Finally some decent grub! I haven't eaten anything since breakfast! What's on the menu? Any High Entia specials? Sharla Do not embarrass me at this dinner! Dunban Expectations lead to disappointment. We are talking about Reyn here. Reyn What? That's the last time I sit next to you then! [Shulk laughs.] Melia I have much to prepare. I will have someone call for you later. Shulk We can't wait. [Melia walks off, but Shulk stops her, deliberating whether to tell her something but then deciding not to.] Melia Is there something wrong? Shulk No. Melia You're a funny one. [Shulk then sees another vision: Metal Face stabs Emperor Sorean in the gut.] Shulk Emperor! [The Emperor then falls to the ground, revealing Metal Face's claws soaked in blood just as they'd been in the attack on Colony 9. Thus the vision ends, and Shulk is back in the present at the Imperial Villa.] Shulk It can't be! Reyn Shulk?! Shulk It's the Emperor! [That catches Melia's attention. She returns to the group.] Melia Father? Reyn Another vision? Melia Shulk! What did you see? Shulk On that tower... On Prison Island... [Just then a siren sounds throughout the capital. Three Imperial Guards rush towards the villa.] Dunban What does the siren mean? Imperial Guard M-Mechon... They're coming! Dunban *gasp* [Elsewhere, the Mechon reach Eryth Sea, Metal Face speeding ahead of the rest. Several Andos units give chase, but Metal Face simply turns around and zips right past them, their shots missing.] Metal Face Too slow! You'll never stop me now! [Metal Face and the other Mechon continue their flight across Eryth Sea, now beyond the reach of the capital's defence mechanisms.] [Meanwhile, back at Alcamoth, a trio of Imperial Guards run up the steps of the Audience Chamber and kneel before Emperor Sorean and Prince Kallian.] Kallian Report! Imperial Guard Yes, Sire. We received a report from our south station. Mechon are approaching. Kallian Impossible! Sorean Kallian. Your sister's time has come. Kallian Your Majesty. Sorean There is only one course of action left. [Kallian gasps as Emperor Sorean approaches a staff on display in a special compartment at the back of the chamber.] Sorean We will not waver from our destinies. Kallian Father! Sorean Kallian! Take charge of the capital's defences. I will go to Prison Island! [Meanwhile, back at the Imperial Villa...] Melia Tell me! What happens to my father? Shulk He... It follows my last vision. We're on Prison Island. Metal Face and your father are... Melia Prison Island? Why would Father go there? [Melia thinks for a moment, then comes to a decision.] Melia No! I must go to the palace. I must stop him. I will go to the Audience Chamber! [Melia takes off.] Shulk Wait, Melia! We're coming too! [The party follow after Melia. When they reach the Audience Chamber, they find Kallian alone.] Melia Brother! Where is Father? Kallian Melia... Melia The Imperial Staff, it's... So Father has gone?! [Kallian tries to speak but can't find the words.] Melia Kallian! Kallian The Emperor has proceeded to the island, alone. For the sake of the empire. Melia Why did you let him go alone? Father...! Alvis [O.C.] His Majesty is fully aware. Shulk Alvis... [Alvis strides into the Audience Chamber.] Alvis Of what will happen to him, and what he must do before then. Shulk You saw something? Alvis I did. During our ancient divination ritual. Shulk If he knows, then why? Alvis Because he is the ruler of the imperial family and all the High Entia. We must respect his decision above all else. Shulk But that doesn't mean... Kallian Trust him, Shulk. His fate was decided long ago. Melia No! [There is a brief silence, then...] Dunban Shulk, we're going! Shulk Dunban? Dunban Respect? Destiny? We don't need rules to tell us when to save the people we care for! You too, Melia. Don't give up on him. The Emperor, your father, is going to die! Melia Dunban! Dunban There's only one thing to do. Are you with me? Shulk Of course! Kallian But you can't! Dunban We are Homs. Do what you must. But your laws don't concern us. Kallian My apologies, Dunban. Dunban No apologies needed. So, Melia, what's it to be? Melia We go to Prison Island! [The party hurry out of Alcamoth. Meanwhile, in the skies above Eryth Sea, the battle rages on. Andos units continue to fire futilely on the Mechon.] Metal Face This fly infestation is beginning to bug me! [Metal Face flies off to decimate the machines as Face Nemesis opens up for battle, revealing twin blades.] Face Nemesis Unmanned craft built by ancient High Entia. Is it too much to hope this is the last of them? [She looks over to see the battle over Prison Island. Just then, several large Skyray monsters fly towards them. Metal Face and the other Mechon are forced to dodge out of their way. Metal Face and Face Nemesis are back to back.] Metal Face Ginormous things at 12 o'clock! Face Nemesis Ancient creatures that were sealed within Prison Island. They have us in their sights. Metal Face They must be our target's pets! Face Nemesis Perhaps. Metal Face Let's see how they like this! [The two Faces split off from each other. Metal Face gets a distance away, turns around to face the Skyrays, then opens up with a charged beam of light straight ahead.] Metal Face Die! [The beam blasts through the creatures.] [Elsewhere on Eryth Sea, Shulk's party step off the transporter from Alcamoth at the Centre Gate. They look up at Prison Island in the distance.] Melia Prison Island is just ahead. Shulk Do we need to use the transporter? Melia We do. But first we must unlock the seals. Shulk Seals? [The view shifts to Central Seal Island.] Melia We'll need to unlock two seals to reach Prison Island. Then a door will appear before us, showing the way. [The view returns to the Centre Gate.] Shulk Got it. Move, everyone! [The group proceed to open the sister gates, Khatorl and Soltnar, and from Central Seal Island unlock the transporter's seal that will lead them to their destination. As they hurry to the newly opened transporter, they look up to see the battle raging over Prison Island.] Shulk Mechon! And something we've never seen before! [The party continue their run towards the transporter, but Riki stops.] Riki Big fish coming! [They gasp as a Skyray bears down on them from above.] [In time, the party destroy the creature and afterwards examine its carcass.] Reyn Can anyone explain what this thing is?! Melia I believe it's one of the oldest creatures on Bionis. I have only seen them as fossils discovered around the capital. To find that they were trapped on Prison Island... Sharla Was it protecting the island? Dunban That would imply it's sentient. I believe it's responding to something primitive. Sharla Primitive? Dunban It doesn't care who or what we are. Its instinct was to defend against anything. But we'll never really know. Sharla We're losing time here. We still haven't reached the island. Riki Riki go to island! [As the party step into the transporter, the Mechon continue their assault on Prison Island. Metal Face and Face Nemesis fly in tandem with numerous other faced Mechon. Emperor Sorean watches all of this from Prison Terrace, the highest point on Prison Island.] Sorean Our forces can only take so much. The capital's defences are sure to fall. [Sorean turns back to the ancient wall at the back of Prison Terrace.] Sorean Forefathers, grant me your wisdom. [The Emperor takes the Imperial Staff in hand and with it activates ancient symbols on the ground.] Sorean Iluna Mel Rukan Tak'sis Duku Aruke Mese Dakhini Ehato! [Once the symbols are lit, a massive mechanism emerges from the ground in front of the Emperor, revealing a bearded Giant confined by great shackles.] Sorean It can't be! A Giant. So this is what was sealed away. ??? How long has it been, Emperor? Sorean This is our first encounter. ??? It is not you that I speak to, but your blood. The blood that shackled me. Sorean I see. Then I assume I do not need to tell you the reason I am here. ??? There is no need. I already know why you have come. [Emperor Sorean hesitates.] ??? Use it. That is the reason I am here, after all. [Sorean places the Imperial Staff in a device in the ground, causing the mechanism holding the Giant to glow with golden light. Eight blue lights activate above the prison, causing eight similar balls of light to appear above Prison Island. These lights simultaneously create a force field around the entire island and emit powerful rays that attack the invading Mechon.] Metal Face How did they...?! [From Alcamoth, Kallian and Alvis gaze at the ovular force field of light that has appeared around Prison Island.] Kallian That light, it's... Father. [Alvis looks on at the display with satisfaction.] [Meanwhile, Shulk and his companions have arrived at Prison Island via the High Entia Transporter. They come to the immense Prison Gate.] Reyn Whoa! Big door! Whatever needed this door was massive. [Riki turns around.] Riki Ah! Dinobeast! [The others follow Riki to a large statue of what appears to be a Telethia.] Reyn It's just a statue. Don't freak us out like that, Riki! Sharla Is this a person? I can't make it out. Melia This may very well be the appearance of my forefathers. The legends tell that they differed greatly to how we look now. Dunban And this is what they looked like? Reyn Wait a minute. I've seen this thing somewhere before... Riki Dinobeast! Dinobeast! Reyn You might be right. It reminds me of the Telethia as well. Shulk Did your ancestors build this island? Melia No. The stories tell of this place existing long before my people. No one knows for sure, but we think our forefathers are the ones who sealed it. Sharla I wonder what's hidden inside. Well, we'll know soon enough, I suppose. Melia There! An engraving by the forefathers. [The group turn to find the engraving with ancient symbols that Melia has pointed out.] Melia I've seen this engraving around the capital. Many researchers have tried and failed to discover its meaning. Reyn Hey, Shulk. That symbol. Shulk Yeah... It's similar to the Monado's symbols. There must be a connection. Dunban Connection? Melia The sealed door of Prison Island. It is said that only a true successor to the throne can open it. Shulk Then the Emperor must be inside. Melia I believe so. [Melia calls out in an amplified voice.] Melia Forefathers. I, your descendant Melia Antiqua, stand before you. For the sake of our world, release the seal! [A green disc-shaped light scans Melia's body, like a similar instance in the High Entia Tomb.] Melia Just like at the Tomb... Reyn What's it doing? Sharla Aren't we going to help?! Melia Please do not worry. It is necessary. [The massive door opens, revealing the grim Central Hall beyond. As this happens, Shulk sees a vision: It's the Giant, surrounded by golden light.] ??? Heir to the Monado... Let the shackles be released! [Back in the present, the rest of the party approach Shulk.] Reyn What is it, Shulk? Get a move on. You saw it, right? Us bashing that tin man's head in! Shulk Hold on a second. Reyn Here we go. I knew you'd start overthinking. Sharla There's not much time, Shulk. We've got to go now. Reyn Sharla's right. We'll miss our chance to take that murdering Mechon down. And save Melia's father too! Shulk I... OK. [Bionis area intro: Prison Island] [The Central Hall is lined with torches lit by eerie blue flames. There is also black fog that serves as a transporter. Using such transporters, Shulk's party make their way towards Prison Terrace, hurrying to the top of Prison Island.] Sharla We must be outside the tower. [The group stop running.] Reyn Are we here? [In the distance, Shulk sees the horn of the Bionis from his visions.] Shulk This is it. [Momentary flashback to one of Shulk's visions, wherein he's attacking both Face Nemesis and Metal Face.] Shulk This is the place I saw. [A couple faced Mechon fly up towards the party, but they are stopped by the force field. Melia runs up the steps to Prison Terrace where she sees her father the Emperor, with the imprisoned Giant.] Sorean Melia? Melia Father! [Emperor Sorean still has the Imperial Staff powered up in the ground as the party approach him... and see the Giant.] Melia Father, who is this? [Shulk walks up, and the Giant addresses him.] ??? Welcome, True Heir to the Monado. Shulk Who are you? Reyn Check that guy out! Melia Is this...? Sorean He's one of the Giants, said to have become extinct eons ago. This is what our forefathers locked away. ??? I am Zanza. And I have waited centuries for you. [The party is taken aback by this.] Melia You waited for him? But I thought our forefathers imprisoned you here?! Zanza I forged the Monado. It is moulded from me. All who wield the sword are made known to me. Shulk You made the Monado?! Zanza Yes. I made it millennia ago to oppose Mechonis. Shulk But why are you imprisoned? Zanza The Monado controls the principle upon which life is based, the source of your existence - ether. Master the principle of life and all things will bow to you. Your power would be infinite. As you now know, the sword gives the wielder the power of foresight. And I myself once used that sword against the Mechonis, and defeated it. Reyn You're telling us you beat the Mechonis with that tiny thing?! Zanza Its appearance is merely an illusion. Its form morphs to conform to the will of its master. The power comes from within. [Shulk inhales sharply.] Zanza But its power was feared by some. That is why the High Entia imprisoned me here long ago. Melia That can't be true! Our forefathers would have had better reason! Zanza You are what you are. Do you not believe your own eyes? Open your mind! New ruler of the High Entia. [Zanza address the group as a whole.] Zanza The Monado is the blade of the Bionis. The only force that can oppose the Mechonis. As the wielder grows, so too does his ability to control all things. Yet there is still power trapped in the sword. The Monado is in shackles. Shulk Shackles? Zanza It is suppressed. Shulk You mean... [Momentary flashback to Reyn accidentally striking a machine and Fiora with the Monado in the Weapon Development Lab, cleaving the machine in two but leaving Fiora unharmed.] Zanza Yes. It was this constraint that gave rise to faced Mechon. Mechon which cannot be destroyed by the Monado. [Meanwhile, the Mechon continue to be repelled by the eight spheres of light firing on them and powering the force field.] Metal Face This is beginning to wear thin. [He fires off a mighty blast, which simply bounces off the force field. This causes all eight spheres to retaliate against him; Metal Face barely dodges their return fire. He continues his reconnaissance.] Metal Face Now, where is it? Where's this power coming from? [Metal Face spots Zanza and Shulk's party on Prison Terrace.] Metal Face Is that...? So, he's come out to play! That's cheating. Can't have that. [Metal Face swings his claws in anticipation.] Metal Face This is gonna be good. Try and stop my new toy! [Metal Face takes the green-laden spear in his grasp.] Metal Face Catch this, Zanza! [Meanwhile, down on Prison Terrace...] Shulk These shackles... They must be the reason the Monado can't hurt people as well. Does that have something to do with the faced Mechon? Zanza You must find that out by yourself. I will remove those shackles for you. But you must take the Monado and free me from this prison. Free me, and the Monado will cut down anything you wish. Nothing but a god can stand in your way! [Shulk steps forward.] Melia Don't do it, Shulk! Shulk But Melia, why? Melia Something's not right. The forefathers must have had good reason to seal him! Shulk I need that power. I thought you of all people would understand! Melia I do...but... It's just... Reyn Hold on a minute! He only said he'd release this new power. Sounds like a good idea to me. Melia But... Shulk Melia, please understand. I must do what I set out to. The Mechon must pay! [Flashback to the Mechon raid on Colony 9. Various colony residents are being consumed by Mechon. Metal Face slams Fiora's mobile artillery against a house, smashing it to pieces. He stabs her through with his claws, then tosses the vehicle away to the Mechon behind him. Back in the present, Zanza speaks from his prison.] Zanza Young Shulk. I will not force you. I ask for nothing in return. It is your choice. Shulk I will. [The Monado powers up, lighting up the whole terrace. With a mighty swing, Shulk cuts away at Zanza's shackles. A golden light then pours forth from where Zanza had been confined. The Giant stands for the first time.] Zanza Heir to the Monado. Your will shall be done. Let the shackles be released! [The sky all round Prison Island is lit up in gold.] Metal Face [O.C.] This party's over! [Shulk gasps as the green-tinged spear pierces through the force field - and impales Zanza straight through.] Zanza No! Shulk Zanza! [Zanza groans, then falls backwards, the spear in his gut preventing him from falling all the way down. The force field dissipated, Metal Face and the other faced Mechon enter.] Reyn It's him! Shulk Metal Face! Metal Face Sorry we're late to the party! What do you think of our leader's gift? Reyn How did you know we'd be here? Metal Face What's that? The poor insects are a little confused? We're here for the old fool! [Zanza gasps for breath as green light flows through the spear, causing a darker green gas to emerge from the Giant's body.] Metal Face If he's dead, he can't power up the Monado. You being here's just an added bonus! [Face Nemesis arrives, placing herself in front of Metal Face, hovering just above Zanza.] Sharla A silver-faced Mechon! Face Nemesis [V.O.] Zanza. Respond, Zanza. I know you can hear me. [Zanza is unmoving, but his voice is heard as he and Face Nemesis are seen against a black backdrop. Red waves go out from the Mechon as she speaks with her thoughts, and gold waves from Zanza as he replies in kind.] Zanza [V.O.] I sense thought waves. Face Nemesis [V.O.] Zanza, how many more will you sacrifice? Zanza [V.O.] Who are you to talk to me? How dare you! You know nothing. Face Nemesis [V.O.] I am here to talk, Zanza. [The conversation is interrupted, however, as Shulk attacks Face Nemesis in a rage with the Monado.] Shulk Mechon! [Face Nemesis is forced to leap away.] Shulk You will pay for what you've done! Face Nemesis Please wait. I mean you no harm. [Shulk charges at her anyway.] Shulk Give us back Fiora! Give her back! [Metal Face intervenes, using his claws to bat away Shulk's attack.] Metal Face I told you to stay outta the way, boy! [Metal Face knocks Shulk flat on his back, toppling end over end as he slides into Zanza's body.] Dunban Shulk! Metal Face Weak! Weak and pathetic! [Metal Face readies his claws to strike again. Sharla opens fire with her rifle as Reyn and Dunban begin to attack their foe. But their attacks are just as ineffectual as before; Metal Face swats Dunban away.] Melia Dunban! [Melia charges up an ether blast that hits the Mechon right in his faceplate.] Metal Face Stupid bug! [Metal Face swipes at Melia, but Dunban gets her out of the way just in time.] Sorean Melia! Metal Face Look at you! Worthless without the Monado! Isn't that right, Dunban? [Dunban leans over Melia but looks back at Metal Face.] Dunban What or who are you?! How do you know me? Metal Face Let's see if this jogs your memory! [Metal Face leaps into the air and strikes downwards at Dunban with his claws, forcing the latter to leap away.] Dunban He moves like... [Dunban continues dodging more familiar attacks.] Dunban But that's impossible! Reyn Dunban! [Sharla is firing away at the other faced Mechon as they advance on her, but Face Nemesis leaps in their way.] Face Nemesis Cease immediately! They are not our target. [Sharla gasps.] Metal Face Any final words? [Metal Face charges up an attack aimed at Dunban.] Metal Face Die! [But he is stopped when his metal body is suddenly bombarded by light energy.] Metal Face Who dares? [Metal Face turns to find Emperor Sorean using the Imperial Staff to attack.] Sorean Stop at once! Mechon! Shulk Emperor! [The eight balls of light on the back of Prison Terrace finish their assault, and Metal Face staggers, choking a bit. His legs collapse, and as he falls forward, his red metallic eyes go dim.] Melia Father! [Melia rushes towards Sorean, and the two embrace.] Sorean Are you hurt, Melia? Melia No, Father. [Behind them, Metal Face begins to stir again.] Metal Face You're gonna pay for that, you bag of bones! [Everyone gasps as Metal Face powers up his claws. Sorean pushes Melia away.] Sorean Melia! [Metal Face then runs his claws through Emperor Sorean's midsection. Melia rises from the ground to see the blood-soaked claws right in front of her face. She watches them retract.] Melia Father! Shulk Emperor! [But the Emperor falls to the ground sideways, allowing the party a good look at the blood on the Mechon's claws. Metal Face laughs.] Metal Face Looks like he's had his wings clipped! Did you really expect to beat me?! [Shulk is on his knees, quivering with regret.] Shulk Emperor. I... failed you. Zanza [V.O.] Heir to the Monado. [Shulk gasps, then looks to Zanza's lifeless form.] Shulk Zanza! You're alive! Give me the power I need! [Zanza's mouth does not move, but Shulk hears him nevertheless.] Zanza [V.O.] I am now a mere shell. The power is already yours. Shulk What?! Zanza [V.O.] The shackles have been broken. Wield the sword. It bends to your will. Think of your enemy, and the power to defeat them is yours! [With a final groan, Zanza's body disappears in a burst of green light, leaving only tiny green particles and the spear behind. These particles rain on Shulk and the Monado.] Shulk Zanza. [He raises his sword.] Shulk Mechon! [Momentary flashback to Metal Face at the time he stabbed Fiora.] Shulk It's not over. The people of Bionis will never let you triumph! [Just then, a new symbol appears on the Monado, and Shulk powers the weapon up like never before.] Melia It's changing form! [With the Monado's seal released, Shulk charges.] Face Nemesis [to the other Faces] Be careful. We cannot withstand such power! Dunban Shulk! [Shulk raises the Monado against the faced Mechon, ready for battle at last.] [By the time it's over, Shulk is battering the Monado against Metal Face, slicing off a metallic arm. Metal Face collapses to the ground growling in pain. His entire frame is sparking.] Metal Face You! [Shulk stalks forward towards his prey.] Shulk You will know the pain and suffering you caused the Emperor and Fiora! [Shulk raises the Monado for the final blow, but Face Nemesis leaps in.] Face Nemesis Desist! [Face Nemesis takes the hit meant for Metal Face.] Shulk What? [Pieces of Face Nemesis fall to the ground. Inside the cockpit within her chest there appears to be a person.] Reyn Look at 'im! Dunban The Monado has changed! [Face Nemesis collapses to a metallic knee in front of Shulk.] Zanza [V.O.] Good. Now you feel it. Swing the blade to your heart's content! Face Nemesis Wait. Is this what you truly desire, Zanza? Zanza [V.O.] I see now. It is as I suspected. You exist outside the pre-established harmony. [But all Shulk can focus on is the armoured being piloting Face Nemesis.] Shulk Is that a Homs?! [The Homs pilot removes her visor, and Shulk gasps.] Reyn No way! Shulk Fiora! [From the cockpit of Face Nemesis, Fiora looks down on Shulk and the others, expressionless. Melia makes a gasp of uncertainty.] Dunban Fiora! You're still alive! [A small explosion at Face Nemesis' shoulder causes Fiora to lurch forward in the cockpit. She continues to speak in a voice that is not Fiora's, however.] Fiora Zanza. You have not changed at all. That is clear. But still, I cannot... Zanza [V.O.] Do as you please. [Fiora gets Face Nemesis back to its feet and rises into the sky. Dunban runs forward desperately.] Dunban Fiora! [Dunban, Shulk and Reyn sprint after her. Fiora takes one last look at the terrace where they run and turns away.] Shulk Wait! Fiora My mission is complete. Returning to base. [Fiora's Mechon takes off far into the sky. Metal Face flies alongside the running heroes.] Metal Face You were lucky this time, Dunban! But next time I'll slice you in two! [Metal Face takes off, and so do the other faced Mechon with him.] Shulk Fiora! It's me - Shulk! Fiora! [But they have reached the edge of Prison Terrace, and the Mechon are now long gone. The three return to Melia, who cradles her dying father in her arms. Sharla and Riki are by his side as well.] Shulk We were too late again. I saw it. I knew it would happen. Sharla Shulk... Reyn Why? Why did this have to happen? Melia [crying] Father... Sorean Melia, the hope of our people, you must not cry. Melia Don't say that! I don't care how improper it is. Let me cry. Sorean Melia... Melia Why does it have to be me, if all it takes is to be half Homs? Sorean Is that what you think? You are very much mistaken. Melia But... Sorean To become the hope of the High Entia is a fate that you choose for yourself. As long as you remember this, it is certain that you will be worthy of that name. But remember this also. It is not because you are the hope of the High Entia that I love you. It is because I love you that I wish for you to become that hope. [Melia cries, unable to speak. The Emperor turns to Shulk.] Sorean Heir to the Monado... I leave the sword in your hands. The sword that my forefathers sealed away. With it, you can succeed. Shulk Your Majesty. [Sorean turns back to Melia.] Sorean [weakly] Melia. Cry for as long as you must. But when your tears are dry... [Emperor Sorean Antiqua dies in Melia's arms.] Melia [crying] Father, no! [The rest of the party are beyond words. Shulk rises.] Shulk Melia, come with me. Melia Shulk...I... Shulk You'll have plenty of time to think about your empire and your people's hopes. If you need me, I will be at your side. But you are an individual. You are Melia Antiqua. And you can't let them get away with this! Melia You're right. My foremost concern is making them pay. [The party stand in forlorn silence at the top of Prison Island.] [Sometime later, after they have left, Alvis walks alone up to the spear and the place where Zanza's Giant form had perished.] Alvis Well played indeed, Zanza. [From the place where the spear rests and the green particles glow, Zanza's voice laughs.] Zanza [V.O.] I do what is necessary for the world. [Alvis leans against the spear.] Alvis I could very easily have stood in for you. Zanza [V.O.] Your sentiment is appreciated. [Alvis begins to walk away as Zanza's particle cloud begins to expand.] Zanza [V.O.] I see a storm on the horizon... [The green particles float out past Alvis from Prison Island across Eryth Sea.]  [In the Audience Chamber at Alcamoth, Lorithia and Alvis stand before Kallian and Melia, while a force of Imperial Guards kneel behind them.] Kallian And finally, Crown Princess Melia's accession will take place one year from today. Until such time, as decreed by the crown princess, I shall assume imperial duties as regent. If there is anyone who objects to said decision, state your grievances now. [Lorithia and Alvis share a look, then nod.] Lorithia All the ministries are unanimous. We have no objection to Her Majesty's decree. Kallian To each and every one of you, our thanks. Lorithia If I may, Your Highness. I would like to propose a round-table discussion on strategy concerning the Mechon. Kallian Ah, what to do about the Mechon. Our defences must be shored up immediately. Lorithia Not only our defences, Your Highness. Kallian Do you suggest an offensive approach? While the capital still licks its wounds? Lorithia The Ministry of Research has the ideal solution. [Meanwhile at Whitewing Palace, the mood is sombre as the party come to grips with the events at Prison Island.] Riki Friends act strange! Are friends sad? Riki sad too because of empty belly. Reyn Riki, we already ate. Us Homs don't get upset just because we're hungry. Riki Not hungry? Hom Hom must have small bellies. Riki jealous! Sharla We've got to get our minds off this somehow. Dunban's locked himself away ever since we came back. [Melia enters the room.] Melia Is it because of the girl who was operating that Mechon? Shulk Melia. How are you? Melia What do you mean? If you are talking about Father, I'm fine. I have no choice but to the look to the future. Shulk You're stronger than me, Melia. Melia Do not mock me. More importantly, it is time you tell me who she is. Shulk We've known her all our lives. We thought she was killed in Colony 9. [Momentary flashback to Fiora lifting up her visor inside Face Nemesis and then flying away.] Reyn She didn't even recognise us. She's not the Fiora I remember. [Shulk begins to walk away from the group.] Shulk It looked a lot like Fiora. But if it was her... Then I can't imagine how Dunban feels. [Shulk leaves the room.] Sharla What did he mean? Reyn Fiora is Dunban's sister. Sharla I didn't know! Melia Is this Fiora...important to Shulk? Reyn Important?! She's more than important! She's the reason we're out here! [A tense moment follows between the three as Shulk wanders down the corridor outside towards the transporter.] Shulk [inwardly] If that really was Fiora, why didn't she reply to me? Fiora... I'd better talk to Dunban. He'll know something. [Shulk sets off and finds Dunban just off Melfica Road below, looking out over the Fountain of Hope.] Shulk I've been looking for you. So this is where you were. Dunban Shulk? Apologies. Was everyone worried? Shulk Of course. Me especially. [Dunban makes a questioning sound.] Shulk It's just... I've been thinking about Fiora, and I can't help wondering... Dunban Wondering what? Shulk You saw how Fiora acted. It was like she didn't even recognise us. Dunban Yes. It's unsettling. But Shulk, don't get me wrong. I'm not sad. Even if she doesn't recognise me, I'm glad to know she's alive. Shulk Dunban... Dunban You see, Fiora was born many years after me. And not long afterwards, we lost our father to a Mechon. It was left to me to protect and raise her. Almost like a father. Shulk I was always jealous that she had you as her brother. Dunban Ah yes. You and Fiora used to be inseparable. Shulk Yeah. Dunban I need to tell you something. I always thought, if Fiora were to be with anyone, it should be you. Shulk What? But Reyn hangs out with her just as much as me. Dunban Yeah, he does. But Fiora doesn't like him in that way. Shulk Oh, I see. [The view shifts to Reyn with Riki inside Whitewing Palace.] Dunban He's a nice guy. Reminds me of myself when I was his age, all reckless and hot-headed. [The view returns to Dunban and Shulk.] Dunban Probably why he's not right for her. Listen, Shulk. Shulk Yes? Dunban A lost life can never be returned. But she's alive. It doesn't matter that she's lost her memory. Shulk Yeah... I guess you're right. Dunban Fiora and I have spent our entire lives together. The memory of that can't have disappeared completely. It's up to us. We have to help her remember. Help me, Shulk. Help me get her back! Shulk You know I will. Dunban OK. Let's go tell the others. [Shulk and Dunban return to the others at Whitewing Palace.] Reyn Hey, they're back. Melia Have you gathered your thoughts? Dunban Yes. Sorry to be a nuisance. Melia Shulk...you too? Shulk Yep. All thanks to Dunban. Melia I'm...glad. [An Imperial Guard enters the room.] Imperial Guard Forgive me, His Highness Kallian summons you. [Shulk turns to the others.] Shulk You think something happened? Dunban We won't know until we get there. [Shulk's party meet Kallian in the Audience Chamber.] Kallian I apologise for calling you at short notice. Shulk It's fine. Is anything wrong? Kallian I must apologise to you all. Forgive our hubris. [Melia reacts in surprise. The view shifts to the outer dome of Alcamoth overlooking Eryth Sea with Prison Island in the background... and just visible beyond, the head of the Mechonis.] Kallian We High Entia were arrogant enough to idly sit behind our defences, safe in the knowledge that Mechonis lies a great distance from our land. And we were wrong. [The view returns to the Audience Chamber.] Kallian Our decision to ignore the Mechon assault on your homeland was wrong. Shulk Your Highness, does this mean... Kallian Yes, Shulk. We will face the dangers ahead, together. Melia Brother... Kallian Which leads me to my request. After setting eyes on a group consisting of Homs, Nopon and High Entia alike, I realised an allied army must be formed. I ask that you act as ambassadors for the assembly of this force. [Shulk hesitates.] Kallian Tell me your thoughts, Shulk. Shulk I need time before I make a decision. [Shulk walks off. Kallian comes over to Melia.] Kallian Does Shulk not wish to aid us in our mission? Melia I do not believe that to be true. Kallian Then why? Melia Shulk has other people to consider. [Melia appears crestfallen. The party later return to Whitewing Palace.] Sharla That wasn't like you, Shulk. Shulk I'm sorry. Sharla You know you can talk to me. Reyn It's Fiora. That's why you're hesitating. Shulk Yeah. Reyn Knew it! You wouldn't think twice otherwise. Shulk I just don't know. [Melia enters the room.] Melia Find her, Shulk. Shulk Melia...I... Melia I used to believe my father did not love me. Until the day he died. [Shulk is rendered speechless.] Melia If you do not grasp the importance of loved ones until after they are gone... That is simply too late. Shulk You're right, Melia. I've made up my mind. I'm going to get Fiora back! Dunban You don't have to do this. I'll go and look for her myself. The burden should be mine. Shulk No. I want her back as much as you. Reyn Leave the ambassador stuff to me, Shulk. I'll probably make a mess of it, but we're a team. You can count on me. Melia I am afraid that is my duty, Reyn. I am of both High Entia and Homs blood. I am the crown princess, and of mixed heritage. Thus, I am best suited to carry out this task. Shulk That means we won't... Melia Yes. I will remain here. We must say goodbye. Sharla Is that what you really want? Melia Yes. But promise me when you find her, you'll come back. I'll be here waiting for you. Shulk I don't know what to say. Thank you. [Melia escorts the party down to the capital's exit.] Shulk It's probably a good idea if I go and tell Kallian myself. Melia I am sure he already understands. Besides, it's likely that the ministers are harrassing him at this present moment. We should spare him any further inconvenience. Shulk Then this is goodbye. Melia Yes. Come back as soon as you can. We are in great need of your help. Shulk Got it. [Shulk and the others leave, but Sharla stays behind, then goes to Melia.] Sharla Ahem... Melia Why are you still here? Sharla Listen. I'll keep an eye on Shulk for you. Melia Whatever can you mean? Sharla It's a risky strategy, letting Shulk go off and just hoping he'll come back to you. Melia Shulk and I are merely... Sharla Yeah, yeah. But remember! The longer he's away, the more chance his feelings for you will fade. Melia But- Sharla Once we find this Fiora, I will personally whisk him back here in a heartbeat. Don't give up! Melia I appreciate it. Sharla Great! Don't worry, Melia - I'm on your side! [Kallian and a contingent of Imperial Guards exit the Imperial Palace and come to the place where Melia is standing.] Melia Brother? [The party have now rejoined Melia on Melfica Road.] Kallian Just on your way out, I see. Melia It's not what- Shulk I'm sorry, Your Highness. About your offer... We must...humbly decline. Kallian I see. Very well. Let us hope my sister does not shed too many tears. Melia I stay because I must, Brother! [Kallian then summons a High Entia woman dressed in Melia's exact same ceremonial garb, including the Empress Mask hiding her face.] Reyn There's two Melias? Riki Reyn wrong! This Melly smell different. Kallian Yes. We need Melia to learn more of the lands of Bionis. But she is still bound to handle public matters. Hence, another Melia. Melia Kallian... [Kallian comes and kneels before Melia.] Kallian Your Highness. Crown Princess. As your humble subject, I formally request the following. Melia Speak. Kallian I request that you accompany Shulk in his quest to find the Mechon that attacked Alcamoth. Shulk Are you sure? [Kallian rises.] Kallian Shulk. I am aware of everything. Go forth and follow your heart. There will come a day when we need you, but it is not today. Shulk Your Highness, that means a lot to me. Reyn That is one cool prince. Sharla If only someone had his sensitivity... Reyn Sensitivity? I'm sensitive... Sharla The jury's out on that one. [Sharla walks over to Melia.] Sharla That's a relief. [Melia nods her agreement.] Kallian We have recently received a report that the silver-faced Mechon fled to Galahad Fortress, the Mechon stronghold at Sword Valley. It will be a treacherous path. My sister is in your hands. Shulk Thank you, Kallian. I will keep her safe. Melia Regent, I accept your request. I will return victorious with Shulk. Kallian I am most pleased. Alvis [O.C.] Leaving without me? [Alvis walks over to the group.] Shulk Do you want to come? Alvis To reach Galahad Fortress you will need to travel through Valak Mountain, on the right arm of the Bionis. The snow-covered mountains are fraught with danger. Those unfamiliar to them risk never coming back. Kallian Of course, you would be familiar with that region. Dunban Then there's no point in wasting time. Kallian Leave the allied force to me. I am not known for my diplomacy, but call it pride. I shall succeed. Shulk We'll join you as soon as we can. Kallian I look forward to the day. [Kallian turns to the party as a whole.] Kallian Heroes of Bionis! Make us proud! [The Imperial Guards behind Kallian kneel.] Reyn You see. Now we're getting some respect. Sharla We're back to this again, are we? Shulk See you soon, Kallian. [Shulk's party, led by Alvis, leave the imperial city through the Centre Gate.] Alvis We will need to traverse Sword Valley if we wish to reach Galahad Fortress. Sharla If Colony 6 were in better shape, we could have taken a pod from there. How are we getting there? Alvis We will take the path down from the Bionis' right arm. Sword Valley is where the arm meets the Mechonis' sword. Dunban So that's our route. Alvis As I said earlier, it is a snow-covered mountain range, and you should expect a tough climb. Are we all ready? Reyn Ready as we'll ever be! Alvis Quite. [Alvis sets off for a nearby pod.] Alvis First, we will head through Makna Forest. This short-range pod will be our transport. All aboard, people. [The party speak to the Captain to tell him they're ready to depart in the vessel to Makna Forest. Moments later, the short-range pod takes off. From the Pod Landing Site in Makna Forest, the group make their way through Valak Pass to the mountain beyond.] [Meanwhile at Galahad Fortress, Face Nemesis undergoes repairs. Fiora is inside and continues to speak in a voice not her own.] Fiora Zanza is not dead. I feel it. Our tragedy unfolds once again. Vanea [O.C.] Lady Meyneth. Does that mean...? Fiora Indeed. I do not doubt that Egil, too, is aware. [Flashback to Zanza, freed from his shackles at Prison Island.] Fiora However, why free the Monado? [Flashback to Shulk, powering up the Monado at Prison Island.] Fiora Zanza must realise it is now a double-edged sword. [Flashback to the ether particles that are all that remain of Zanza, and the spear that destroyed his shell. This is followed by another flashback of Shulk attacking the Mechon with the Monado.] Fiora And what reason could he have for choosing the boy? [Back to the present, Fiora seems momentarily confused. Her voice is still Meyneth's, but a little bit of Fiora's intonation can be heard.] Fiora What is this? I am experiencing feelings for the boy? Vanea Lady Meyneth. Fiora Vanea. Your swift repairs are appreciated. Vanea Thank you. Fiora I wish to see that boy again. To meet with the one who wields the Monado. Vanea The boy? But, my lady, is that not- Fiora Is Egil aware of my reawakening? Vanea He is not. As my Lady wished, he knows nothing. Fiora Then there is no need to worry. I shall meet the boy. [Face Nemesis' cockpit closes around Fiora. Inside, she touches a hand to the chest component on her armour. It activates with a red glow.] Fiora Besides, the Monado will draw him to me. [Fiora activates the controls. Outside, Face Nemesis takes off high above Galahad Fortress, soaring across Sword Valley towards Bionis. Her departure is noticed by Metal Face.] Metal Face Flying off without me, huh? I know you from somewhere. [The view shifts to Fiora inside Face Nemesis.] Metal Face Of course, I remember you. You're Dunban's little sister. [Bionis area intro: Valak Mountain] [Alvis has led Shulk's party to the snow-covered peak of Valak Mountain at Zokhed Pass. Ether crystals dot the frozen landscape, lighting up the snow in a sublime golden glow at night.] Reyn I could go for a hot cup of Dickson's homebrew right about now. We're not built for this cold. Alvis It is to be expected. This climate is as different to your home as it gets. It only snows this high up on the Bionis. Riki Riki hate cold! Sharla This can't be nice for Riki. He's from Makna. Shulk A little further down is Sword Valley, right? Alvis Yes. But before then I must show you something. Shulk Me? Alvis You, Shulk. [Alvis looks off towards a large, shimmering tower in the distance.] Alvis Do you not see? That tall formation that looks like a tower. Ruins, to be precise. Riki Riki see it! Bigger than big tree in village! Alvis We can rest there. I'll explain everything then. [The party arrive at the Sealed Tower, but thick ice blocks the entrance.] Sharla Ruins? I wonder who built them. Reyn Alvis? This the place you meant? Alvis Hmm. It appears to have frozen over while I have been away. Reyn Been away? Alvis Pay me no mind. We will need to do something about the ice before we can enter. Riki Throw hot water on ice! Reyn Yeah, nice one genius! Alvis Precisely. [View of Jakt Geyser outside the tower.] Alvis There should be a geyser nearby. In the cave next to it, we will find a stone called Magma Rock. [The view returns to the party at the tower's ruins.] Dunban And we can use this rock to melt the ice? Alvis I believe so. So, shall we head to the cave? Shulk Sounds good. Start looking for a geyser, everyone. [The team make their way past Jakt Geyser into the Lava Cave, where they fight Conflagrant Raxeal for the Magma Rock. They then return to the tower and melt the ice covering the door. There is an inscription on this door.] Melia The letters are worn and difficult to make out. But it's definitely the language of the High Entia. Sharla They look just like the lettering on Prison Island. Dunban If only we could... [On a whim, Dunban walks up, and the door opens.] Dunban ...just walk inside. [The group enter and find an altar inside.] Shulk This place... Reyn Something up, Shulk? Shulk No...it's just... I feel like I know this place. Dunban Dj vu? Shulk I'm not sure, but... [Momentary flashback to Dickson finding Shulk as a child asleep under this altar, when it held the Monado.] Shulk I thought I had it. I can't seem to recall... [The Monado glows with blue light on Shulk's back.] Melia Are you all right? Shulk What? Must be tired. Don't worry. Alvis This is Ose Tower. Built by the High Entia to house and protect the Monado. The ceremony of seers was conducted here. It is also where the Homs found the Monado. Shulk Wait, you mean...! [Sometime later, the party have made a campfire inside Ose Tower. Shulk goes again to inspect the altar.] Shulk So this is where the Monado was kept? My dad took it from here... [Shulk turns to Alvis.] Shulk Have you always been able to see the future? You told me you are from a long line of seers. Did you have the ability from birth? Alvis Once, I too came into contact with the Monado. Those that are to be seers must touch the Monado. And a chosen few receive our power. That is the ceremony of my family. Shulk And the ceremony was held right here. Alvis Shulk, why do you think we can see the future? Shulk I hadn't really thought about it. After I grabbed the Monado, I just saw things. Alvis Your visions are the flow of ether itself. Ether is the very source of our world's existence. Where and how much ether there exists now, and in the future, can be predicted. Therefore, in principle, the future of living beings such as us can also be predicted. And there is one thing that makes possible the visualisation of those predictions. Shulk You mean the Monado. Alvis The Monado can disrupt the ether, allowing you to release certain powers. Which means? Shulk My visions, under the same principle, are there to disrupt the future. Alvis With no one to control the outcome, the future will never change. But what if someone were to disrupt the future? What then? Shulk The future would be changed. Is that how Zanza planned to defeat the Mechonis? [Alvis nods.] Shulk But why go to such lengths? What happened all those years ago? Alvis Did you think it was just a myth? Shulk I used to only believe in what I could see. My home, my friends, the Monado itself! I knew those things were real. Alvis But when you took the Monado in your hand, you gained the ability to see that which was not meant to be seen. Shulk Are you saying I should stop? Alvis You are a fluctuation. As a fluctuation, you exist outside the results of your predictions. The more you accept this existence, the more malleable the world becomes. In fact, you have no choice but to accept it. [Meanwhile, Dunban is shown listening in on their conversation.] [The next morning, Alvis leads the party outside of Ose Tower back onto the snowy mountainside.] Alvis Good morning. Did we sleep well? Reyn I can't feel my face or feet. What do you think? Riki Reyn not tell truth! Reyn's snoring make Riki think of Orluga! Reyn Oi! I don't snore! [Alvis laughs, then gets down to business.] Alvis Sword Valley is just around the corner. [The party set off across the snow, but Dunban lingers behind a moment.] [Later, Shulk's group are trekking across the Great Glacier, not far from the Bionis' Wrist, when Face Nemesis flies overhead.] Shulk That Mechon! [Face Nemesis lands a short ways in front of the group. Shulk runs over, and the cockpit in the Mechon's chest opens to reveal Fiora again.] Shulk It is you. Reyn Hey, that's Fiora! [Dunban and Reyn run up to her. Melia and Sharla join them, Alvis moving more slowly towards the rest of the group. Meanwhile, Fiora addresses Shulk, but she still has the voice and personality of Meyneth.] Fiora Young Heir to the Monado. We meet again. Shulk Fiora! Fiora Fiora? Is that my name? [Dunban can be seen approaching.] Fiora Then you... You know this body? Shulk So it's true. You really don't remember us at all. Fiora, listen! If nothing else, you must remember your family! That's Dunban over there! Fiora Family? There is family... Wielder of the Monado. There is...a matter I must speak to you about. [But a blast of energy from off-screen hits her. Fiora cries out in Meyneth's voice as Face Nemesis is sent crashing into a rocky spire.] Shulk Fiora! Reyn What was that?! [Metal Face flies overhead and lands next to the same rocky spire, bearing down on Face Nemesis. His claws are directly above Fiora herself.] Shulk Metal Face! Dunban Stay alert! Melia You killed my father! Reyn Get him! [The party charge at Metal Face.] Shulk Get away from her! Metal Face Now, now, let's all calm down. If I slip, I might mess up her hair. Shulk You! Melia You're disgusting! Metal Face Would you be so kind and hand over that dangerous toy you have? I could take it after I smash you all to a pulp. But we wouldn't want that, would we? Shulk All right. You can have it. But only if you let her go. [Shulk deactivates the Monado and sticks it in the snow. He backs away with his arms out.] Metal Face There's a good boy. Always eager to please, Shulk. [Metal Face laughs as he opens his cockpit, revealing the Homs within to be none other than Mumkhar, Dunban's former comrade-in-arms. The traitor has a body of dark Mechon armour in place of his previous Homs body.] Dunban But you're- Mumkhar How's it going, Dunban? Shulk Is that...? [Mumkhar leaps out of his Mechon and takes the Monado.] Dunban Mumkhar! I thought it might be, but... You're to blame for all this? Mumkhar I can't tell you how badly I've wanted this sword! Has this puny boy even figured out how it works yet? [Mumkhar grabs Shulk by the throat.] Mumkhar What are you willing to do? Would you even kill a Homs to beat us? [Dunban draws his sword.] Dunban You dare ask that of us? Why did you betray us to Mechonis? [Mumkhar throws Shulk to the ground.] Dunban Why did you kill our friends at the colony? Why?! Mumkhar You wanna know? Because it's your home. Dunban You piece of...! [Dunban charges Mumkhar in a rage, but Metal Face grabs Fiora's Mechon and pins her to the rock.] Mumkhar Stay where you are. That thing works by remote. [One of Metal Face's claws rises up towards an unconscious Fiora's throat.] Mumkhar So unless you want me to put a hole in her neck... [Dunban gasps.] Mumkhar So what's it to be weaklings? Grovel at my feet and beg? [Melia activates ether energy from her staff.] Melia We will not bow to you! [Melia fires a blast that hits Mumkhar, knocking the Monado out of his hand, and blasts Metal Face, knocking it over.] Riki Melly hit bad guy in face! [Shulk runs over to the Monado and activates it.] Mumkhar You'll pay for that, princess! [Mumkhar activates the claws from the his hands, which in his new Mechon body now glow red instead of being steel as they'd been in Sword Valley. By now, the rest of the party have drawn their weapons and ready themselves for battle.] Dunban You're a traitor, Mumkhar. And you're not getting away. [In the end, the battle comes down to Dunban against Mumkhar, who clash sword and claws against each other furiously across the snowy landscape. Dunban's body glows with the power of Monado Enchant.] Dunban You fought beside me at Sword Valley! Why did you change sides? Why the Mechon? Mumkhar You're as blind as you were then! I've wanted you dead for years! [The ground begins to shake.] Shulk What's happening?! Reyn Is the Bionis moving?! Mumkhar I wanted to get the Monado so I could be the new hero! Dunban Is that it?! That's the puerile reason you've killed all those innocent people? [Dunban's fist hits Mumkhar in the face.] Dunban Ravaged our home! Mumkhar I love this body. The power! [Both combatants ready their weapons, then run past each other with a powerful slash. But it is Mumkhar who takes the worse of it, his arm starting to spark with injury.] Mumkhar Dunban, you'll never win! Get on your knees and worship me! Dunban Never. I will strike you down and all that you have become, you wretched fool. The Monado will stop you. And then you will know the shame of all that you have done, traitor! Mumkhar Shut your mouth and come on! [But a shockwave of snow interrupts their duel as more faced Mechon fly in, landing amongst the party.] Shulk That light! [There is a light in the sky, from which emerges the large golden Mechon, swishing its tail as it lands in front of Dunban and the others.] Dunban What the?! [The faced Mechon around it unfold themselves around their master.] Shulk It's not like the other Mechon. ??? You are right, Heir to the Monado. This is the strongest Mechon ever built, controlled by me, Egil. Leader of Mechonis and agent of Meyneth. Shulk Leader of Mechonis. So you're the one who controls the Mechon! Egil I am he. We fight to free the world from the tyranny of the Bionis. Shulk Why?! Why do you trap Homs in machines? What do you want from us? Why make us fight for you?! Egil Your questions do not concern me. I must return with this one. [A light glows from Egil's hand, and Face Nemesis is levitated towards him.] Dunban Fiora! Shulk Get your hands off her! Fiora! [But Egil and Fiora's Mechon are already rising into the sky.] Egil If you want her, come and get her. You are more than welcome on Mechonis. [Both Mechon take off towards the horizon. Meanwhile, Mumkhar flies past, back inside Metal Face. The other faced Mechon follow.] Mumkhar Come and visit any time, Dunban! Dunban Mumkhar! Shulk We're coming. And we won't give up! [Shulk and the others run down the mountain as the Mechon fly overhead.] Egil Find us, Monado. Sword of the Bionis. We will meet you on the battlefield. Shulk Fiora, we will find you! [The Mechon finally disappear into the sky as the party continue running.] Shulk Fiora! [Shulk and his companions are left at the foot of Valak Mountain.] Shulk Fiora. Melia Shulk... Shulk She's... Reyn Get it together! Shulk! We ain't got time to be hanging around here! I dunno what's happened to her, but that was Fiora. No doubt about it. You know what that means?! She ain't dead! We've gotta get her back! Shulk Get her back... Right! We've come too far to give up now! Reyn Then we'll go to Mechonis! And find Fiora! [Alvis gestures towards the tunnel up ahead at the Bionis' Wrist.] Alvis Just beyond there lies Sword Valley. The Mechon flew in the direction of Galahad Fortress. Fiora may be there. Will you pursue, Shulk? Shulk Yes. We will get Fiora back. [The party set out. Upon reaching the Bionis' Thumb, there is no more snow, and the group can see Sword Valley spread out before them.] Reyn Whoa! What the?! Riki Is all that big sword? If is then ouchy ouch! Dunban The sword of the Mechonis. Sharla The entire valley below... The whole thing is its sword! Shulk Something seems unnatural. Melia What do you mean? Shulk Look. That flowing light. [There are veins of green light flowing through the rusty landscape in the valley, with green flames lit on top of the walls intermittently.] Shulk From the way it glows, it has to be ether. But it looks like it's being drawn in by something. Dunban By the fortress! It should just be up ahead. Melia Father once told me that the Mechonis absorbs the ether of the Bionis and uses it for sustenance. Dunban So the Mechonis feeds off ether. Then undoubtedly the ether serves as the Mechon's energy source as well. [The party continue their march down the sloping canyon that comprises the thumb of the Bionis.] [Mechonis area intro: Sword Valley] [Melia stops the group once they see Galahad Fortress on the horizon.] Melia It looks so big, even from this distance. The fortress must be enormous. Dunban Galahad Fortress - the front line base of the Mechon. The Mechon that attack Bionis must all come from here. Shulk Then there's a high probability that he's there. The golden Mechon that took Fiora. [Shulk walks forward ahead of the others.] Shulk We're about to enter the Mechon stronghold. If there's anyone who wants to turn back now... Riki Shulk. Friend should no split up. No leave friend behind. Riki scared but Riki want go too. Shulk Riki. [Shulk looks around at the others, none of whom show any signs of wanting to turn back.] Dunban He's right. OK, let's go. Shulk Yes! [Upon approaching the sword itself, the team stop at the sight of ships below. Reyn goes a little ahead of the others.] Reyn What's that? Alvis A supply convoy. It would be most unwise to proceed without restocking our supplies. Shulk You arranged this for us? [Alvis nods.] Reyn Hey, it's...! [Dickson can be seen next to one of the transports.] Shulk Dickson! [The party run up to him, crossing over into Sword Valley proper in so doing.] Dickson Looks like you lot have been having fun without me. Heard you took care of that faced Mechon. Dunban What are you doing here? Dickson I got wind of some allied force coming together a few days back. I stepped up as the representative of the Homs. Then a little birdie told me you lot were heading for Galahad Fortress. So I thought I'd drop by and say hello. I've got a whole stack of new equipment. Want some? Reyn Yeah! I was hoping for some new stuff! Dickson Hold it, Reyn. You know it's gonna cost you? Dunban You cheap old man! [Dickson waves the remark off.] [Later, after stocking up at the Supply Convoy, Shulk and his companions speak with Dickson and tell him what has happened.] Dickson Fiora? You mean Dunban's sister? Dunban Yes. Dickson So that's why you're all looking so down. I can't believe they're sticking Homs into those faced Mechon. Looks like they weren't just eating us. Dunban They made Mumkhar into one. He was the one who attacked Colony 9. Dickson Oh, and there was me thinking he snuffed it in that battle. Dunban Aren't you surprised? Dickson That he attacked Colony 9? I dunno what drives those Mechon. I've given up trying to figure them out. It don't surprise me one bit. Still, Mumkhar as well? [Dickson gets introspective all of a sudden.] Dickson Things are getting interesting. Shulk Sorry? Dickson Oh, nothing. [Alvis comes to Dickson's side.] Alvis It is time for us to return. I would like to continue providing assistance, but my help is required in assembling Homs for the allied force. There are also my duties as seer to consider. Dickson Then I'll be off too. You lot should be all right getting Fiora back. In the meantime, we'll be getting ready for battle. Shulk Thanks for coming this far. We'll be fine. We can handle ourselves. Dickson Galahad Fortress is a key position for the Mechon. You can't just rush in, all guns blazing. Dunban Agreed. We will infiltrate via the ether inlets. If I'm right and the Mechon do feed off ether... Then we're sure to find some form of influx channel. Our objective is to reach one of those channels. Dickson Don't go dying on me, Shulk! Shulk I won't! You take care as well. Dickson Cheers! [Dickson waves, then he and Alvis depart. The party then watch as their pod soars into the sky.] Melia Looks like it's just us. Dunban Right! We head for the hilt of the sword - Galahad Fortress. Shulk OK! [The party begin their journey, with Dunban lingering behind a little.] Dunban [inwardly] One year on. Now, at last, we will seize our destiny. Isn't that right, Shulk? [Meanwhile in Galahad Fortress, Egil muses inside his golden Mechon. Flashback to Zanza, before he was imprisoned, standing on an open plain on the shoulder of the Bionis overlooking the titan's head. There is another flashback to the battle between the Bionis and the Mechonis before returning to the present.] Egil So another has appeared with the ability to wield the Monado. But why would Zanza release the Monado? He surely knows it would become a double-edged sword. Yet he relinquishes it to that mere child. [Momentary flashback to Shulk speaking to Fiora within Face Nemesis at the Great Glacier on Valak Mountain.] Egil And a Face escaped my control and acted alone. Now that the Monado has been freed, it appears the usefulness of the Faces has come to an end. Although... Perhaps there are still things to be learnt from having them challenge the boy. [Later, Shulk's party have emerged from the Ether Storage Area in Sword Valley, near the hilt of the Mechonis' sword.] Reyn Hey, look! [View of the Galahad Fortress Rear Entrance, where there is an ether inlet.] Reyn Can we get in through there? [The view returns to the party.] Dunban It looks as though it's unguarded. It should make for a decent entry point. Shulk Now's our chance, Dunban. Dunban Yes. But don't lower your guard. The Mechon may just be hiding. [Upon reaching the Port Access Pathway, Mumkhar steps into their path.] Mumkhar I've been waiting for you. Dunban Mumkhar! Mumkhar How predictable. I knew you were going to come. Dunban How could you? How could you do this to your own kind?! Mumkhar That ain't got nothing to do with it. I'm just having the time of my life here! Ain't that the point?! I even get to take out that annoying Monado brat. Reyn Oi, beardy! You're talkin' pretty tough there! Don't be so sure you can take us all on by yourself! Mumkhar Come on! I ain't that stupid! [The roar of engines is heard.] Sharla What's that sound?! [A number of deadly green spears land on the Heavy Machine Depot all around the party. Then numerous faced Mechon land and surround the group.] Reyn You scumbag! [Metal Face begins to rise as Mumkhar activates it by remote.] Mumkhar Well then, Monado boy. Thank ya can do it? Can ya kill 'em all? [The faced Mechon begin picking up their spears as Mumkhar enters his own Mechon. He speaks from within Metal Face.] Mumkhar I wonder who's inside? Who could it be? Your dad? Your mum? Maybe that special someone! [Sharla gasps at the thought.] Mumkhar Aha! Looks like we have our first contestant. [Shulk sees a vision of the immediate future.] Mumkhar Too bad she won't give me much of a fight! [Metal Face, his claws now infused with the same green substance contained in the spears, slashes Sharla across her midsection, and the vision ends.] Shulk [inwardly] It's just like with Zanza! Shulk [to Sharla] Sharla! Look out! [Shulk rushes in front of her as Mumkhar readies his attack.] Mumkhar Too bad she won't give me much of a fight! [This time, Shulk blocks Metal Face's attack with the Monado.] Sharla Shulk! Shulk Everyone! Watch out for the green claws! And the other ones' spears! There's something different about them! Mumkhar You catch on quick, boy. You're right. These weapons are special. They were made especially to decompose you Homs. No, wait, any being from Bionis. Dunban How can that be?! Mumkhar I dunno about all this technical stuff. But it's something to do with that ether. Ether is like the Bionis' blood. The fortress sucks its blood out for us. Then we use it to make this green liquid. Shulk You monsters! [Mumkhar laughs.] Mumkhar Pretty clever, don't you think? This world suits me just fine, Dunban! Dunban Mumkhar! You're gonna pay! Mumkhar I'm tired of your yapping, Mr Hero. I'm gonna squish you like a slug! Right here, where we shared such lovely memories. [At the end of the ensuing battle, Mumkhar's Mechon has sustained critical damage, Metal Face sparking all across its frame.] Mumkhar Too much... The Monado is too much! [Mumkhar struggles to keep Metal Face standing.] Dunban Yes. This is the power of the Monado! You wanted it, so now you can have it, Mumkhar! [Dunban, Enchanted by the Monado, charges at Mumkhar with his sword drawn.] Mumkhar I'm better than all of you! You're the one who's finished! [Metal Face charges up a ball of light.] Dunban Die! Shulk Stop! [Metal Face's cannon, with which Mumkhar had been charging his attack, is suddenly severed from the Mechon's frame, flying high into the air, damaging a nearby spear-shaped pillar. Below, Dunban's blade is but an inch from Mumkhar's exposed throat, but it is Shulk with the Monado that blocks Dunban's sword. Their blades lock.] Dunban Get out of my way! Shulk! Shulk It's Mumkhar... He's not a Mechon! Dunban Have you forgotten everything he's done? Where is your killer instinct?! Now is the time! Shulk I hate him, Dunban. For what he did to Fiora. And the Emperor. So of course I want to get my revenge! Melia Shulk... [Shulk struggles increasingly against the strain of Dunban's might to keep his sword restrained.] Shulk But... Face Mechon are not like the others. They're people! Like us! Are you really willing to kill another Homs? Dunban Yes. Sometimes needs must! Shulk Even if it's Fiora? What then? [Dunban is momentarily at a loss for words.] Shulk When we set out, I wanted to destroy all Mechon. That was my aim. But now... I know that there are people inside. I have to know why. What's the reason for all of this? Why do Bionis and Mechonis have to keep on fighting? I have to find out why! Dunban So, that is your fight? [At last, Dunban relents and pulls his sword away. Mumkhar reaches up with Metal Face's claws to attack.] Mumkhar Pathetic! [But with incredible speed, Dunban slashes through Metal Face's arm at the shoulder. Mumkhar cries out as the Mechon crashes to the ground. Above, the pillar hit by Metal Face's severed cannon begins to totter.] Shulk Dunban! Dunban I will never forgive what he's done. And yet... Your words. They ring true. I feel their weight. We have to help Fiora now. We'll worry about the rest later. Shulk Right! Dunban Did you hear that, Mumkhar? We haven't got time to be playing around with you. Mumkhar You always had to have the last word! [Shulk sees another vision of the immediate future.] Mumkhar Just die! [Mumkhar then charges at Shulk and Dunban from within Metal Face, but the spear-like pillar above falls and impales him, ending the vision.] Shulk and Mumkhar [simultaneously] - No! Don't move! - Just die! Shulk Stay back! [But Mumkhar charges forward inside Metal Face, shooting off a blast at Shulk and Dunban. Shulk tackles Dunban to get them both out of the way. The blast then hits the wall behind them, causing the tottering spear-like pillar to fall, which then impales Mumkhar straight through his Mechon.] Dunban Mumkhar! [The ground starts shaking, and the Heavy Machine Depot breaks off from the rest of the structure, plummeting into the abyss and taking Mumkhar and his Mechon with it.] Mumkhar No! No! Not like this! [The platform, Metal Face and Mumkhar all disappear in a tiny conflagration so far below as to be almost beyond sight.] Dunban Mumkhar... [Melia looks down sorrowfully where Mumkhar fell.] Dunban You went too far, you fool. [Dunban then walks away from the edge as Shulk continues to look down.] [Elsewhere, Lorithia studies the green fluid-laced spear that had impaled Zanza. Alvis enters behind her.] Lorithia They are of surprisingly little use... Those visions. Alvis Because he could not save His Majesty? That was within the margin of fate. It was not Shulk's fault. Lorithia Hmm. So you side with the boy? [Alvis shakes his head and changes the subject.] Alvis Did you find anything out? Lorithia I did. It is most fascinating, this spear. The green fluid alters and destroys the structure of the ether, which is the building block of life on Bionis. It appears to have been created from ether energy drawn from the blood of the Bionis. Alvis Could that explain the ether flowing through Sword Valley? Lorithia I do not think it is the only reason, but it is too early to draw conclusions. Alvis Is there a countermeasure? Lorithia Creating antibodies is a simple matter. We will be ready. Alvis That is good news. Lorithia Why did you have to include him? You know how he disgusts me. Alvis We must respect our elders. Dickson has known him far longer than us. [Meanwhile, back at Sword Valley, Shulk and the others regroup.] Reyn At least he's out of the way. Now we just need to get inside. Shulk They're in there. Fiora and the golden Mechon. [The group head towards Galahad Fortress, but Shulk is stopped by a vision: Fiora's Mechon, flanked by other faced Mechon, walks forward. She holds her blade up, which appears to quiver. The vision shifts to Shulk crying out, then to Face Nemesis falling out of the fortress as the floor collapses underneath her, sending her into a fall similar to the one Mumkhar just took. Here the vision ends.] Shulk Fiora! [This outburst stops the others.] Reyn Shulk! [Reyn runs back to him.] Reyn What's up?! Dunban Did you see something? Shulk No... [Dunban shakes his head.] Dunban You did see something. Shulk All right. It was the silver Mechon... Fiora. She's definitely inside the fortress. Dunban All right. At least we know what to expect. Shulk [inwardly] So Fiora is inside. I can't let that vision come true. I have to save her! [Soon, the party arrive at the Fortress Rear Entrance.] Reyn Here's our way in. Sharla There's no turning back. Shulk We can't let them find us. Let's move! Reyn Right! [The group enter the fortress.] [Mechonis area intro: Galahad Fortress] [Shulk's group arrive at the Main Maintenance Bay. Rows of Mechon line each of the Fuel Supply Rooms, and gears whir in the maintenance bay.] Shulk Fiora's in here somewhere. Reyn Let's get looking. Keep your eyes peeled. I'm ready for anything. I'll trash any Mechon that tries to mess with us! [Shulk nods and then looks ahead. After finding the Fortress Pass Key in the 2nd Fuel Supply Room, the group unlock the lift and reach the Main Control Room one floor down.] Reyn Where are we? Sharla Looks like the control room for an ether blast furnace. [Sharla walks over to the observation window.] Sharla There, look at that. [View of a pipeline leading to the Piston Control Room. Ether flows into a cavernous pit below.] Dunban So this is what supplies the Mechon with ether energy. Riki Shulk! What's that?! [The view shifts to the pistons pumping beyond the window, then to the party in the control room.] Riki Looks like fun! Riki want to ride! Reyn We didn't come here to mess about, furball! Time to bounce on! Shulk Hold on! If we can stop that piston, we might be able to shut down the blast furnace. Sharla Nice idea. Cut off the Mechon's ether supply. Riki Riki say we try! Reyn Yeah, but how are we supposed to stop something that massive? Shulk If we can stop the turbines driving the piston, it should work. And the turbines should be nearby. Dunban Right. Let's search for them. [The party then proceed to stop both turbines powering the piston so that the Ether Blast Furnace is no longer functioning.] Reyn Nice one! We did it! Dunban This should prevent them from mobilising any large Mechon squads for now. Hopefully we've improved the allied force's chances. Melia Hold steady, my brother. [A couple red-lit doors light up green and open.] Riki Friends! Here here! [The others come to the railing where Riki is pointing them. Below, they see one of the open doors.] Shulk It looks like the door's been unlocked. Reyn Nice. Let's get down to the blast furnace. Shulk If we're lucky, Fiora might be down there. [Later, the party find a lift that takes them down to the Face Maintenance Bay. Mechon Face units holding green spears line the walls but are inactive.] Melia Shulk, is that? Riki Spear ones! Loads and loads of spear Mechon! [Just then, a siren sounds. A door opens revealing a couple Mechon Guard Units. Shulk gasps. The party attempt to run, but a larger door opens in front of them. Behind it, Face Nemesis stands in their way.] Shulk It's Fiora! [This time, however, Fiora draws the twin blades from her Mechon unit and engages Shulk's party in battle, aided by the other Mechon in the area.] [In the fight that follows, Shulk and the others destroy the Guard Units without harming Face Nemesis. Afterwards, they try to talk to Fiora.] Dunban Stop! Don't you recognise Shulk?! Fiora! Shulk Fiora. Please. Don't you remember us at all?! Dunban It's no use. Everyone, it's time to retreat. Reyn Got it! Sharla Understood. [They all make to leave except Shulk.] Dunban Move! Shulk! [Finally, Shulk joins the others in retreating as Face Nemesis looks on.] [The party make it nearly to the Fortress Depths, but Fiora's Mechon overtakes them and blasts the bridge they're running across. It collapses underneath them, sending them falling and screaming. Shulk cuts a groove through the falling bridge with the Monado to slow his fall and catches Melia by the hand. Nevertheless it's a hard landing for them all. They come up groaning.] Dunban You all right? Reyn Yeah, I think so. What do we do now, Shulk? We ain't gonna last long here! Shulk Fiora! Try and remember! It's us! Egil [O.C.] I pity you. Without the power of that sword, I doubt you would ever have made it this far. [Egil is shown in his Gold Face Mechon.] Egil Apocrypha. Activate. [Above Shulk's party, Egil's Mechon glows with a golden light as purple waves emanate from him.] Shulk What is...? [Egil then unleashes these waves, which radiate out across Mechonis itself. Whereas the party had previously been glowing purple due to Monado Enchant, they have now lost that power, and Shulk's sword deactivates.] Reyn Oi, what's going on?! What's happened to the Monado?! [Other Mechon fly in, accompanied by Face Nemesis.] Shulk Look out! [Shulk goes in to help Reyn, but a Mechon hits him instead. Shulk falls forward and cries out in pain.] Reyn Shulk! Shulk I'm OK. Reyn Shulk! Wait here! [Reyn goes in to attack the Mechon. At first his attacks do little, but finally he knocks the unit over by brute force. But more Mechon surround the group. Fiora's Mechon stalks forward menacingly, blades drawn.] Dunban Fiora! Stop this right now. How could you? Shulk came here to save you! [Fiora's blade begins to shake in her grip.] Dunban Do you hear me? Fiora! [Face Nemesis' head turns with difficulty as the drawn blade continues to quiver in protest.] Fiora [in Meyneth's voice] You must run. [The Mechon's cockpit opens, with Fiora inside.] Shulk Fiora! Fiora... [Fiora attempts to lean forward but falls back against the mechanism keeping her in place.] Shulk Or whoever you are. Fiora [in Meyneth's voice] Please, run! The machine is not under my control. Shulk Not under your control? [The cockpit begins to close around Fiora again.] Shulk Is it him?! Egil Most surprising. I admit I never expected such resistance to becoming a Face. [Fiora's cockpit closes completely around her as Egil's Mechon lands in front of Shulk's group.] Fiora [in Meyneth's voice] Egil... Shulk Fiora! What have you done to her?! Egil From the moment of their creation, all Mechon are mine to control. Should a passenger defy me, I force it to obey. Shulk Why make Homs into Mechon?! Why are you making them attack Bionis? Egil If you wish to know, you have only to submit yourself to me. All will become clear when you attack Bionis with a new body born of Mechonis. Shulk Never! Who would ever submit to you?! Dunban Forget about him. We have to get out of here. [By now Shulk is shaking every bit as much as Fiora's Mechon.] Shulk But... But what about Fiora? Dunban If we die here today, she will be... She will be lost forever. Egil Choose! I have rendered the Monado useless. You have no hope of victory or escape. Reyn You chunk of scrap! So it was you who did that to the Monado! Egil The Monado is a tool that regulates the waves of the very ether from which the world is formed. Therefore, it can be counteracted simply by releasing opposing waves. Shulk But how can you... Egil The questions end here! Hand over the Monado. After all, it is no longer of use to you. Shulk Never! If the Monado really is powerless, then why would you want it for yourself? I'll never give it to you! Never! Egil Then make your choice. Be crushed by my fist or slain by your old friend. [Face Nemesis, still quivering, nevertheless stalks towards the group as Egil charges forward. Inside Face Nemesis, Fiora moans and struggles.] Fiora [in Meyneth's voice] Egil! [But she is compelled to obey and comes to Egil's side to fight against Shulk and his friends.] [The following battle doesn't go well for Shulk's party. Other Mechon have joined the fray and surround them as Egil's Gold Face walks slowly towards his prey. Face Nemesis remains behind him.] Fiora [in Meyneth's voice] I cannot allow this. That boy is at risk. [Shulk and the others continue to raise arms against their adversaries, but they're outnumbered.] Fiora [in her own voice] Shulk! Don't let him die! [View of Fiora's spirit within.] Fiora [in her own voice] Help Shulk! Help them! [Fiora's Mechon body reacts within the Face unit.] Fiora [in Meyneth's voice] Who are you?! Egil This is the end... [Egil charges up a bright sphere of light.] Egil Heir to the Monado! Fiora [in Meyneth's voice] Whoever you are... Please lend me your strength! [Fiora's Mechon charges into Egil's, scattering other Mechon as they crash.] Fiora [in Meyneth's voice] I won't let you do this! Shulk Fiora?! Egil How dare you defy me! [Fiora slashes at Egil with her blades, but Egil hits back.] Egil Worthless machine! [Egil slams Fiora's Mechon into a wall as Meyneth's voice gasps in pain.] Shulk Fiora! [Face Nemesis lies against the wall. Flashback to Egil, seen for the first time outside his Face unit.] Fiora [in Meyneth's voice] Egil... [In the present, Fiora struggles inside her cockpit.] Fiora [in Meyneth's voice] No matter how much you yearn for revenge, I will not permit you to have your way! [Face Nemesis regains its feet, then a burst of red light emanates from the faceplate, sending red waves of energy throughout the battlefield.] Egil The Monado... But how? [Shulk's Monado begins to power up as he sees a fleeting vision of the fortress collapsing and Fiora's Mechon falling into the void below.] Shulk No, stop! [Fiora charges at Egil again.] Fiora [in Meyneth's voice] Please... Survive! Egil Will you die for them?! [And Fiora's Mechon is upon his, as Egil struggles to push her back. Inside, Fiora's chest component glows red with power. Outside, a blinding light fills the Fortress Depths.] Egil What is this?! Shulk Fiora! [The energy is too much for the fortress, and the central pillar explodes. Explosions continue to ripple throughout Galahad Fortress. The lowest level, where the combatants are, begins to separate from the rest of the fortress.] Dunban Not good! Let's get out of here! [But another explosion goes off as Melia cries out. The floor continues to tilt as Mechon slide off past Shulk's friends while they struggle to hold on.] Reyn Shulk! Where are you?! [They find Shulk approaching the edge, where Face Nemesis lies.] Reyn Shulk, get back here! [Shulk continues to struggle doggedly forward.] Shulk Fiora... [Shulk reaches her just as her piece of flooring gives way, and Fiora's Mechon slides off into the abyss below.] Shulk Fiora! [Shulk leaps off after her, screaming.] Dunban Shulk! No! [Both Fiora's Mechon and Shulk disappear into the blue void. Meanwhile, pieces of Galahad Fortress are falling off as the place continues to blow. Egil flies a safe distance away in his gold Mechon and turns to survey the damage.] Egil The power of that Face... No. That is not possible. It cannot be! [Afterwards, news reaches Alcamoth.] Kallian The fortress has collapsed?! What of Melia?! And Shulk?! Imperial Guard The observation was based solely on long-range intelligence. We cannot be any more specific. Kallian Gah! Dickson [O.C.] You don't need to worry about them. [Dickson walks into the Audience Chamber and stands before Kallian.] Kallian But- Dickson Take it easy. I've got a pretty good idea where they are. If you're gonna attack, you'd better do it now. Their fortress ain't completely destroyed. Or do we just sit here and wait to die? Alvis Shall I perform the divination ritual now? Kallian Forgive me, Seer. That will not be necessary. From now on, we will seize our destiny with our own hands. Dickson We don't need to see the future. The Mechon forces are on their way. No doubt about it. [View of Kallian's intense gaze.] Dickson I like the look in your eye there, lad. [The view shifts back to Dickson.] Dickson It's time. This is war. [The Mechon Wreckage Site outside Colony 9 in a dreamscape.] Shulk [V.O.] It's been a long time since I last had this dream. [Shulk as a child is delightedly picking up spare parts.] Shulk [V.O.] I reached out for the piece of scrap metal. [As he does so, the ground from beneath him gives way, and he falls through.] Shulk [V.O.] And then I fell into the ground. [What appears to be another young Shulk looks down on his original self falling as the screen flashes to white.] [Back in the present day, the view opens on the Fallen Arm of the Mechonis, the five digits of its hand resting on the endless sea and reaching up to the sky. On the beach near the wrist, Shulk comes to his senses.] Shulk Was I... Was I dreaming? [Shulk rises to his elbows. Momentary flashback to Fiora's Mechon falling out of Galahad Fortress. He gets to his feet.] Shulk Fiora! [Behind him lies the Silver Wreckage of Face Nemesis. A column of red light glows from Fiora's Mechon.] Shulk What's that? [Shulk goes to investigate. Face Nemesis is stuck in the surf; waves lap around the Mechon. Shulk approaches it to see Fiora still inside, unmoving.] Shulk Fiora! [He lifts her out of the Mechon and carries her back to dry land and lays her on the beach. Her hair has been cut short to accommodate the head piece that she now wears around her head. Her face and hair are all that are visible of her Homs self, the rest of her body being encased in silver Mechon armour.] Shulk Fiora! [Shulk leans down close to Fiora's face.] Shulk She's still breathing! [Shulk examines the component on her chest and tries to remove it, but he stops when it starts glowing red with energy. A little smoke appears when Shulk removes his hand.] Shulk Wake up. [Fiora begins to stir, weakly.] Shulk Come on! Wake up! [He tries to shake her awake, to no avail.] Shulk She needs water. [He looks around for a place to find fresh water and investigates the beach.] [Eventually, after collecting some Clean Water from nearby Zakt Spring, Shulk returns to Fiora. He rests her head against a piece of wreckage and puts a cup to her lips. There is no response. Shulk puts the water in his mouth, then transfers it into Fiora's mouth. Her eyes open.] Shulk Fiora. You're awake. Do you remember? My name is Shu- [Fiora stops him by placing her hand on his cheek. She speaks in her own voice now.] Fiora I can't believe it. My first kiss. Shulk You do remember me! Fiora! Fiora Of course I do. Shulk. [He embraces her, hard. She places a free arm around him as well.] [Sometime later, Shulk is seated next to a campfire as Fiora stands looking out across the sea.] Fiora I... I never forgot you, or the others. Shulk Then, why? Fiora Because I wasn't me anymore. I wanted to call out, but I couldn't. Shulk What do you mean? Fiora When it happened, when Colony 9 was attacked by the Mechon... [Flashback to Metal Face slamming Fiora's mobile artillery against a house in Colony 9's Residential District.] Fiora I thought I had died. [Flashback to Metal Face stabbing Fiora through with his claws.] Fiora I felt the Mechon's claw rip through me. I couldn't remember anything. [Flashback to Metal Face tossing Fiora's vehicle to the Mechon behind him.] Fiora There was no sound, no light, no pain. [Flashback to Fiora, now in a Mechon body, being placed inside Face Nemesis.] Fiora When I came round, I had the body of a machine. [Flashback to Fiora removing her visor at Prison Island.] Fiora And it felt like there was someone inside me. [Back in the present, Shulk is standing next to Fiora now.] Shulk Someone else? The one who was controlling the Mechon you were in? Fiora Yes, that voice. But I could still see and hear. I was there all the time. Except I had no control over my body, and I couldn't talk. Shulk And that's why it seemed like you didn't recognise us. Fiora Yes. Inside my heart, I was crying out desperately. But you didn't hear me. Nobody did. Shulk We always believed it was you. Fiora It's OK. You don't have to say that. I know it would have confused me. Shulk But the person inside you... Do you know who it was? Fiora No. I heard her voice when she spoke, but I didn't know what she was thinking. There was something she urgently needed to do. I understood that much. Shulk What do you think happened to her? Fiora Maybe she's sleeping. Or maybe she's trapped like I was. Shulk I hope she stays trapped. Hijacking your body, treating it like it's her own. Fiora I guess. Shulk I say good riddance, and let that be the end of it. Fiora Shulk? I don't think she's totally to blame. Shulk Why not? Fiora She needed my body for something. I don't know what it was. I just know it was important. I want to help. Shulk Why would you? Fiora I knew she was using my body, but I didn't hate her for it. She was kind. She was taking care of my body. I could feel it. Shulk Really? Fiora Yeah. And she did everything she could to protect you. [Flashback to Fiora and Egil's duel in Galahad Fortress.] Shulk So back when we were fighting... [Back to the present.] Fiora Against Egil. She knew what I wanted to do and did it for me. So I want to help her if I can. Please, Shulk. Shulk All right. Then we'll do everything we can to find out what she was trying to do. Fiora Thank you. Shulk Welcome back, Fiora. Fiora I'm glad to be here. [The two lean their foreheads against each other.] [Later, Shulk and Fiora are sitting on the beach together.] Fiora What do we do now? [Shulk gets to his feet.] Shulk We have to find the others. I know they're alive. I can feel it. [Fiora stands up as well.] Shulk Everyone's gonna be surprised when they see you. Fiora Everyone being... Shulk Reyn, Dunban, and there are a few others we met along the way. Sharla, Riki and Melia. I just know you're gonna like them. Fiora It looks like you've been through a lot as well. Shulk Yeah, but nothing's gonna separate us now. Come on, let's start searching. [Shulk and Fiora reach Ulna Passage inside the Mechonis' arm when Fiora stops.] Fiora Shulk. Shulk Fiora! [He runs over to her.] Shulk What's wrong? Fiora Sorry. My body feels a bit strange. I think I just need to rest. I'm sorry. Shulk It's OK. We can take a break here. [Soon, Fiora is curled up next to the wall sleeping while Shulk sits by her, deep in thought.] Shulk I wonder what happened. After the fortress. Where did the others all end up? [Shulk looks over at Fiora's sleeping form, then studies the Monado.] Shulk The Monado's light is fluctuating. That Mechon really messed it up. But still. I have to protect Fiora. Fiora Shulk? Can't you sleep? [Shulk rests the Monado against the wall on the side opposite Fiora.] Shulk Sorry. Did I wake you? Fiora No. It's OK. I slept really well. Shulk You want to eat? You must be hungry. Fiora No thanks. But I'd like some water. Shulk OK. [He pours her some water from his flask and passes a cup to her.] Shulk You should eat. Even if you're not hungry. You need to get your strength back. [Fiora finishes drinking.] Fiora No, I'm fine. This body has its uses. I never need to eat. I never get hungry. I just run on water. Don't worry. [Fiora passes the cup back to Shulk.] Fiora I prefer my old body, but this one has some advantages. [Fiora rests her chin on her knees.] Fiora Shulk. You can leave me. It's OK. Shulk What?! Fiora I mean, look at me, Shulk. This body is a Mechon body. So I should live here on Mechonis. This is where I belong. [Shulk leans over Fiora, putting a hand on her shoulder.] Shulk You don't have to do that. Fiora The Fiora you knew is dead. Just think of it like that. It's for the best. [Shulk leans in closer, now placing both hands on Fiora.] Shulk But I can see it's not true! I mean... You're right here! I'll never forget how I felt when I thought I'd lost you back at the colony. I should have done something! I thought, if only I had the power to save you. Fiora Shulk... Shulk No. No more regrets. I will protect you. Besides, there's someone else inside your head. We can't leave her there. [Fiora smiles weakly at him.] Fiora I guess not. [A noise sounds nearby. Up ahead, a trio of Mechon land in the passage.] Shulk Mechon! No! Not now! [Shulk runs up to them, but the Monado's light continues to fluctuate.] Fiora Shulk! Let me... [But she collapses, gasping.] Shulk Fiora! [She stays behind the wall.] Shulk Right. Come on, Monado. Don't let me down. Alvis [V.O.] The Monado bends to your will. Shulk No! I won't let you take her from me! This time, I will protect Fiora! [A light shines in the sealed Monado again.] Shulk Yes! The Monado's light! I can do this! [Shulk manages to take down all three Mechon on his own, but he is winded after the fight.] Shulk The Monado... It worked, but... I feel worse than before. Whatever he did to the Monado is... [Shulk gets back to his feet and looks over at Fiora.] Shulk What's that sound? [Two more Mechon, an Offensive Seeker Unit and an Offensive Security Unit, descend from their hiding places and flank Shulk on either side.] Shulk No! We're surrounded! [Elsewhere meanwhile, at a small beach in the Power Pipe Ruins, Sharla regains her feet, but Reyn remains unconscious nearby as she looks around. Soon, Reyn wakes up too.] Reyn Where are we? Sharla You're up then? Reyn Sharla! [The two come closer together.] Reyn What happened to us? Sharla I don't know. I've only just come round. Reyn Where are the others? Sharla I looked for them, but they're nowhere to be seen. Reyn Oh. Sharla Reyn, thanks. Reyn Huh? Sharla For protecting me, back there. Reyn Yeah, it got rough but at least you got out safe. Sharla What is it? Reyn Look at me, I'm useless. Can't even keep a promise. I promised Fiora I'd look after Shulk. Stupid... Sharla You promised to protect the guy who protects you? Am I missing something? Reyn In the old days, Shulk was kinda frail. You know, like a little Bunniv that gets bossed around by the other colony animals. It was me who used to be there, to save him. That's why I promised Fiora. But now look at me. Sharla Reyn. Reyn He's stronger now. And not just 'cos he's got the Monado. I've done all I can to help him. He doesn't need me. Sharla That's not the Reyn I know. Do you remember Colony 6? Reyn Yeah. Sharla The Mechon were always on the doorstep of our home, the colony. Thinking about it, I realise they were after the ether underneath it. Reyn Yeah. I suppose so. If they could stockpile energy from there, they could get to any part of Bionis. Sharla The Colony 6 defence force suffered its fair share of pain. And not just physical. [Reyn grunts in understanding.] Sharla Friends and family...alive one day... gone the next. It all became so normal. You end up wondering how you can possibly make a difference when war is so futile. I'm not the only one who felt like that sometimes. But nobody ever gave up. And you know why? Reyn Because you were strong? Sharla We had no choice but to be strong. Everybody had someone to protect. The moment you looked away, you'd lose everyone you loved. So we had to keep looking straight ahead. We couldn't stop fighting. Reyn Man, that's tough. Puts my problems into perspective. I suppose I should get back to being Reyn. Sharla Don't go doubting yourself, even if things get tough. Reyn You're right. There'll be plenty of time to stare at my feet when I'm old and crooked. Get it? Sharla I get it. So now what? Reyn We go looking for Shulk and Fiora! I might be like a third wheel, but I can still lug around the heavy stuff. Sharla Finally! That's the Reyn I know. [Soon, Reyn and Sharla get set to leave.] Reyn Back there, were you talking about that guy Gadolt? Sharla Not just about him. Why do you ask? Reyn Nothing. Just... You know... Seems like tough competition for a guy like me. [Sharla chuckles.] Sharla Reyn. [A little bit farther on, Sharla stops.] Sharla Do you think Shulk and the others are OK? Reyn 'Course they are. They wouldn't die from something like that. Sharla Back to your old self I see! Right, we'd better get looking. [Later, once they reach Ulna Passage, Reyn and Sharla hear Mechon.] Sharla What's that sound?! Reyn Someone's in a fight! Up ahead! [They run down to see Shulk engaged with the same pair of Mechon from before.] Reyn Shulk! Shulk Reyn? Reyn I got your back. We'll turn them into scrap! Shulk Right! [Reyn and Sharla help Shulk destroy both Mechon.] Reyn Good to see ya. I knew you'd make it, Shulk. Shulk Thanks to you! Fiora [O.C.] Reyn! Reyn, it's you! [The group turn to find Fiora walking towards them.] Reyn Fiora! She remembers us! [Reyn places an arm around Shulk.] Shulk Yeah. She's been through a lot. [As she comes closer, Reyn gets a chance to look over her new Mechon body.] Reyn I can see. [A short time later, Shulk, Fiora, Reyn and Sharla are all sitting together in the passage.] Shulk If only we could find Dunban. Reyn Yeah, he'll be blubbering at the sight of us. Fiora Hahaha! I don't think he'd ever cry in front of you two. Shulk So he does cry?! Reyn When no one's watching? Fiora Yep. He's always been like that. He's a big softy, but he hates anyone seeing it. Shulk I never knew. Reyn Nope! I don't believe it! [Fiora and Sharla both get to their feet.] Sharla Take it easy. Fiora I'm OK. I want to see my brother. Let's go, Shulk. [Shulk and Reyn stand up.] Reyn If you can't walk, I'll carry you. Fiora I'm much heavier now. Reyn I've been pumping my guns. [Now Fiora examines Reyn's body.] Fiora I can see! Reyn, you really looked after Shulk for me. Reyn I wanted to, but it feels more like he's the one who's been protecting me. Shulk That's not true! Reyn It's OK. I know it, you know it. I'm not here to protect you anymore. Sharla But you are here for something. Reyn Yeah. What I did just now. It don't matter how strong you get, you ain't got eyes in the back of your head. So I've got your back! Shulk Reyn, you... Fiora Reyn, you're like a whole new person. Reyn What do you mean by that?! Fiora I mean, it's good you've become so dependable. Reyn Was I that un-dependable before? Fiora Take it as a compliment! Reyn You haven't changed a bit. What would we do without you? Fiora Right, let's go. You wanna see my brother cry, don't you? Reyn Yeah, wouldn't miss it! [As the four friends leave Ulna Passage and make their way outside, Fiora stops with a gasp.] Shulk What is it? Fiora I can hear something. Sharla What? I can't hear anything. Shulk Maybe our sense of hearing isn't strong enough. Fiora Low sounds. More than one. Watch out! Something's here! [A group of mechanical beings slowly approach the group.] [Elsewhere, Riki leads the way in front of Dunban and Melia along Inlet Beach. Soon, the Heropon comes to a stop.] Riki Friends stop for Riki! Riki very hungry! And Riki sleepy! [Riki shakes his head and turns back to look at the other two.] Riki If Riki not rest now, Riki not keep going! Dunban We can't have that, can we? We'll rest here before going any further. Melia, do you need to rest? Melia I am fine. Riki Good! Break time! [Later that night, Melia is sound asleep next to a campfire as Dunban keeps watch beside her. He is jolted out of his reverie when Riki drops a fish next to him.] Dunban What's this? Riki Heropon Riki have big fight with fish. Riki win. Grilled fish taste yum yum! Dundun eat too. Dunban I thought you said you couldn't move if you didn't rest. Riki Riki very tired. But Riki very hungry too. Dunban How considerate of you. Riki Riki not understand Dundun! Dunban Don't try to hide it. You realised Melia was lagging behind. She would never admit how tired she was. That's the real reason you asked. [Riki walks over to the fish. In time, it is prepared in the campfire, and he and Dunban eat.] Dunban Now that's good fish. Even in this strange place, at least the fish tastes like it should. Riki Riki glad Dundun like yum yum fish! Dunban Yeah, thank you. Riki Melly is tired, but Riki tired too. And Dundun not look happy. Dunban What's this? Am I that transparent? Riki Riki want to hear Dundun's story. Riki listen carefully. For Riki is the Heropon. Dunban I'm not sure what that's got to do with it. Well, seeing as you're here. I'll tell you. Riki Yay! Riki listen. Dunban I have a sister. Her name is Fiora. Riki Riki know. She wears silver armour. Shulk look everywhere for her. Dunban Indeed. Shulk and Fiora... Everyone knows they like each other, but they're just not ready I suppose. They are the perfect match, but if they don't hurry up and tell each other... Riki Even Riki know that! [Dunban gets to his feet.] Dunban I suppose everyone does. But now Fiora has become something else. Riki She forget Shulk. She forget Dundun too. Dunban She did. But, Shulk won't give up that easily. Knowing that he's out there looking for her fills me with hope. I just wish I was there with him... Riki Dundun take care of them! Dunban Hmm? [Riki walks over to stand opposite Dunban.] Riki Dundun watch over Shulk. Dundun watch over Fiora. That is all a daddypon can do. Riki make mistake. Dundun not daddypon. Dunban Well, I am her older brother. Riki But just like daddypon, watching over family. Same watch over. Dundun do what he must. Dunban Who would have thought it? I never imagined I would be getting such advice from you. Riki Riki have big family of littlepon. Riki raised and say goodbye to many littlepon. Riki know some things. Dunban You can say that again. I had you all wrong. [The two share a laugh. The next morning, Melia comes over to Dunban and Riki.] Melia It doesn't look like the others are here. Dunban Unfortunate. I hope everyone is safe. Riki Everyone safe. Everyone strong! Melia Riki is right. It is simply a matter of when we will happen across them. Dunban Everyone landed in the same area. They have to be around here somewhere. [Riki has wandered over to the entrance of a large pipe behind them.] Riki Friends look here! Riki find it yesterday when Riki go scouting. [Dunban and Melia walk over to the long pipe, which stretches across the small beach towards a wall beyond.] Dunban I wonder where this pipe leads. Riki Go go! Riki has feeling Shulk and friends are on other side! Dunban Feeling? Well, I'm willing to give your Nopon instinct a try. Melia As am I. The pipe it is. [On the other side of the pipe, Dunban, Melia and Riki find themselves walking into a Hidden Village.] Dunban A village in a place like this! Shulk [O.C.] Melia! [Shulk, Reyn and Sharla run towards the entrance of the village to meet Dunban, Melia and Riki.] Melia Shulk! Shulk Guys! [The six friends run to each other.] Dunban You're all right! [Riki affectionately bops Reyn in the face.] Shulk Yeah. [Reyn grabs Riki by the tuft of fur on his head.] Shulk And... We found Fiora. [Fiora walks up behind them. Deeply moved, Dunban walks towards her.] Fiora Dunban. Dunban Fiora! Do you remember me? [Fiora nods as her brother reaches her.] Fiora Sorry if I made you worry. Dunban It's all right. I'm just so glad you're alive. Fiora Dear brother. [Fiora embraces Dunban. Dunban uses his one good arm to hug her back as the others look on.] Melia Shulk, is that your childhood friend? Shulk Yeah. Melia Congratulations. I'm glad she is safe. Shulk Thank you. I couldn't have done it without you. Dunban But how did you all get here? And what is this place anyway? [Dunban inhales sharply as the mechanical beings from earlier come up the ramp towards the group.] Shulk These people helped us. This is their home. ??? [O.C.] Your surprise is understandable. [The woman speaking, Linada, walks through her fellow villagers towards the reunited party.] Linada We are the Machina. The people of Mechonis. [Shulk's party meet with the Machina at the bottom of the ramp.] Shulk Machina... You mean, machine people? Linada You look as if you have many questions. But please take a look around our village first. We will talk after that. I will be waiting in front of the building we call Junks. [View of a large ship, Junks, docked in the lake behind Linada.] [Mechonis area intro: Hidden Machina Village] [In addition to Junks, there are small mechanical homes situated on the perimeter as various Machina villagers go to and fro. After looking around the village, Shulk and his team go and meet Linada on the Junks Deck, to listen to her as she answers their questions.] Dunban So, are you Mechon? Linada In one sense we are, and in another we are not. It is a fact that the weapons you call the Mechon were created by our civilisation. However, we were born from the Mechonis. By your understanding, it would be correct to say that we are the same as Mechon. Melia A form of mechanical life born of the Mechonis... Is that correct? Linada From our perspective, you are forms of organic life born of the Bionis. Shulk Life born of the Mechonis... So there is life here, just like on Bionis? Dunban Explain to us why you invaded our world. What did we ever do to you? Linada I understand your feelings, but please... There is much yet to tell you. Fiora Dunban, please hear her out. Dunban But... Fiora These Machina... They're good people. [Fiora clutches at her chest.] Shulk Fiora? Linada You do not look fully functional. Shulk Ever since she was given this body, she hasn't been feeling too good. But we honestly don't know what to do. Linada Do you mean to tell me you are not Machina? Why didn't you tell me sooner? [Fiora straightens up.] Fiora I'm OK, really. Linada Nonsense! I am a doctor. Do not worry. I specialise in people in your situation. [Linada comes closer to take a look at Fiora.] Linada Just as I thought. You were transformed into a Face unit. You are experiencing a functional breakdown in multiple locations. [Linada and Fiora turn to face the rest of the group.] Linada I will take her to my laboratory. The chief will answer your questions. He is waiting for you in Junks. Reyn For us? [Linada nods.] Linada We will speak later. [Linada walks off.] Fiora Shulk, I'm... Shulk Fiora... [Sharla walks up.] Sharla Don't worry. I'll keep an eye on her. Shulk Thanks. [Fiora and Sharla go after Linada. After they leave, the remaining party members enter Junks and report to the bridge.] Reyn Hah! [A huge Machina man, Miqol, the chief of Hidden Village, sits in the equally large captain's seat on the bridge.] Reyn He's massive... [The chief laughs heartily.] Miqol I get a kick out of seeing people's faces every time! [Dunban shakes his head while Miqol continues to laugh.] Dunban We were told that you were waiting for us. Miqol That's right. I've been waiting a long time. Waiting for you to accept my request. Melia Request? Miqol But first let me ask. The sword the young man is holding. Is that the Monado? Shulk It is. Miqol And the destruction of the fortress on the sword. Was that your lot's doing? Dunban Yes. Although unfortunately we were unable to stop Egil. Miqol Egil? Dunban Do you know him? He claims to be the leader of Mechonis. Miqol This Egil that you fought is one of our people. He is my son. Dunban Your son? Miqol Actually, my request is about him as well. [Shulk makes a questioning sound.] Miqol I want you to kill Egil.  [In the Audience Chamber at Alcamoth, a force of Homs and Nopon assemble before Kallian, including Dickson, Otharon and Chief Dunga.] Kallian Dearest Homs and Nopon representatives, my humble gratitude for accepting our invitation. I am Kallian Antiqua, regent of the High Entia. Otharon We all know who you are. You High Entia have kept yourselves safe, remaining spectators to our destruction. Why call upon us now? Kallian As stated in my invitation, it is our intention to form an allied force from the peoples of Bionis, with which we will confront Mechonis. Otharon Hah. Look at you. One little scratch and you're already crying for help. Kallian I cannot deny this. The attack did serve as the catalyst. But the fact remains that things have changed. Otharon When we needed help at the Battle of Sword Valley, our cries were ignored. Give me one good reason why we should bother. Kallian I understand your anger. Our selfishness was inexcusable. However, please hear what I have to say. Listen to why our stance has changed. Otharon Hmph. Start talking if you like. But no promises we'll stick around till the end. Kallian We High Entia were mistaken. We believed that if we were attacked by the Mechon, our power alone could repel them. But a brave group of young heroes showed us the error of our ways. When the Mechon descended upon Eryth Sea, Shulk fought with a courage I have never seen. I was most surprised to see that this group was comprised of different races. Homs, Nopon, High Entia; although different, they trusted one another as friends. As just one inhabitant of Bionis, I desired to... No, I felt compelled to become strong, like them. Otharon Their strength came from the Monado. Bravery only gets you so far in this world. Kallian Then you will not join us? Otharon Hold your horses, son. I said they didn't win with bravery alone. But they wouldn't have got far without it. All right. You can count on our help. Dunga The Nopon will join too! The Hom Hom and Bird People are friends of the Nopon. We will fight together! [Dickson walks towards the exit.] Kallian Dickson, are you leaving? Dickson Yeah, it's just I felt this sudden pain in the neck. Kallian Is that your response? Dickson Don't go jumpin' the gun there, Prince. I'll leave the colony's forces with old Otharon here. You can use 'em however you want. I've got somewhere I need to be. Kallian Might I ask where? Dickson A battle's more than just a head-on assault. The sooner you realise that, the better. I'd better go and remind Shulk 'n' all. Kallian So you know of their whereabouts? Dickson I told you. I've got a pretty good idea. Kallian Dickson! Dickson Yeah? Kallian If you should meet Shulk... Dickson What? Kallian I have something I want you to tell him. [Meanwhile, on the bridge of Junks in Hidden Machina Village, Miqol continues his audience with Shulk's party.] Dunban You want us to kill your son? That is no small request. Miqol There are hardly any of us Machina left on Mechonis. Back when the Bionis and the Mechonis were fighting, the Bionis almost completely wiped us out. I suppose the Bionis just didn't want us around. Lady Meyneth fought the Bionis for us. In the end, the two titans wounded each other and entered a deep slumber. Melia Who was Lady Meyneth? Miqol The creator of Mechonis. You could say that she is the Mechonis itself. Reyn You talk like you saw all this. Ain't this all just an ancient myth? [Miqol chuckles.] Miqol I know I look young, but I'm actually quite old. I saw the whole thing with my own eyes. Reyn You can't be serious?! Melia The people of Mechonis must have a longer lifespan. Just like we High Entia live far longer than Homs. Reyn I get that, but he can't have lived that long. Shulk [to Miqol] But why do you want your son dead? From what you've told us, I would've thought you'd want us to destroy the Bionis rather than kill your own son. Miqol Egil was a brilliant young man. Clever, strong and kind to the less able. But he never forgave the Bionis for what it did, and he swore to take revenge. Reyn So he wants to do to us what the Bionis did to the Machina? Miqol Correct. Egil is trying to eradicate all innocent life on Bionis. He has to be stopped. Dunban Didn't you ever try to stop him? Miqol We tried, once. A lot of people were killed. He's blinded by revenge. Even Lady Meyneth herself couldn't convince him to stop. Shulk Where is Egil now? Miqol Most likely the Mechonis capital. He's trying to restore its former glory all by himself. Shulk I feel sorry for him. Reyn What're you talkin' about?! Did you forget what he did to us?! Shulk I haven't forgotten, or forgiven! But Egil's clearly suffered a lot in his life. You don't feel any sympathy at all? Reyn All I know is, this stinks. Who cares what he's been through? Shulk Reyn! Dunban [to Miqol] I understand about Egil. But why us? You should be aware that Shulk's sword, the Monado, has the power to destroy Mechonis weaponry. It's said that it was once the sword of the Bionis. Doesn't the very sight of it make you quiver? Miqol Zanza... [Dunban makes a questioning sound.] Miqol Just talking to myself. If you're gonna kill Egil, you'll need all of that sword's power. That's how strong Egil is. But enough talk, you must be tired. Take your time and think it over. Until the young lady's treatment has finished feel free to spend time in our village. [Miqol dismisses the group with a hearty laugh.] [Elsewhere in Junks, Linada and Sharla look after Fiora, who is resting on a bed in Linada's laboratory.] Linada She has done well to survive such injury. Sharla What do you mean? Is she sick? Linada Since you seem to have knowledge of Homs medicine, I'll explain it like this. I'm afraid she's had several of her organs removed. Am I correct in assuming she was configured to operate inside a Mechon? Sharla That's right. Linada She has been transformed into a Mechon's central nerve unit. Her blood can now circulate through a Mechon's components. Sharla How? Linada I believe her immune system is now configured for compatibility with the Mechon. That's why her strength has depleted. Sharla But you can treat her, can't you? Please! Linada Of course. Even as a Machina doctor, I cannot turn a blind eye to this butchery. With our equipment she will regain her strength, but... She will be stuck with this body. I cannot restore her flesh and blood Homs body. Fiora That's OK. I don't want to be a burden to Shulk. I don't care if I have a machine body. Just make it so I can fight beside him. Sharla Fiora... Linada Leave it to me. If that is your wish, I'll do my best. [Shulk enters, and Linada meets him as he comes in.] Linada I must implant a new circulation system for her immune functions. But we have one problem. Shulk A problem? [Linada walks back to Fiora's side.] Linada I don't have a Piezoelectric Unit, which is required to control such a system. As long as she remains on this bed, the life support machine can compensate. But to move around freely, she must have the Piezoelectric Unit. The same unit is used in Mechon, so if you were to find some Mechon parts... Shulk But where? Linada Well, outside of the village, at the base of Digit 5, there is a beach. [The view shifts to an aerial view of Hidden Village that pans out to the various digits, including Digit 5.] Linada Debris from above washes ashore there. You might be able to find one among the Mechon wreckage. [The view returns to the Junks interior.] Shulk We'll take a look. The beach at the base of Digit 5, right? Linada Yes. It gives off a faint red glow so it might be easier to find at night. [Shulk and the party find a Piezoelectric Unit amongst the Mechon wreckage on Digit 5 Beach and take it to Linada on Junks.] Shulk I think we found it. Is this the Piezoelectric Unit? Linada Yes, that's it. Well done. Shulk Linada, will Fiora be OK now? Linada She'll be fine. It will just take me a little time to reconfigure and install the unit. Leave it to me. You get some rest. Shulk But! Linada Shulk, do you want her to see you looking exhausted when she wakes up? Shulk You're right. I'll try and get some rest. Thank you for everything you're doing. Linada By the way... Shulk Yes? Linada The chief says he wants to speak with you. I think it's about Egil. Shulk I'll go and see him. He wants Egil stopped, and so do we. But I need to sleep on it. Linada Good. You mustn't overburden yourself. We will help you in any way we can. Shulk Thank you. [Later, Shulk and his companions use a room prepared by a Machina villager to take a rest. The next day, the party meet with Miqol on the bridge of Junks.] Shulk Umm... Miqol How are you? Sleep well? Shulk Yes, very well. I wanted to...talk about your son. Miqol Have you made up your mind? Shulk Yes. We agree with you. Egil must be stopped. But we can't act now. Miqol Why's that? Shulk Before we came here, we heard of plans to form an allied force on Bionis. Any day now they're going to launch an attack on Mechonis. But it's too dangerous. Egil has made a weapon that could kill us all. Dunban The weapon that Mumkhar was using? The one that shoots green fluid? Sharla He said it can decompose any being from Bionis. Shulk We have to go back and warn them. Before it's too late. [The door to the bridge opens, and Dickson enters.] Dickson Well, you could always ask me to do it. Shulk Dickson?! What are you doing here? [Dickson steps up to the group.] Shulk I can't believe you found us. Dickson Why? This place is directly below the fortress. If you fell from up there, I figured you must've ended up here. And Bob's your uncle. Miqol You're looking well, Dickson. Dickson I see you're lookin' like your usual old self. Dunban You know each other? Dickson Kinda. [Miqol chuckles.] Miqol I scratch his back, he scratches mine. He tells us about the outside world, and we give him technology and information. Dunban [to Dickson] Why did you keep that to yourself? That information is vital to all who fight Mechonis. Dickson Not all of us Homs are good people. What'd happen if the Mechonis-hating types found this place? These Machina cut themselves off from the world to get away from pointless fighting. Melia So they escaped to live in peace? Somewhere they wouldn't be seen. Makes sense. Dickson Clever little crown princess, ain't ya. Dunban So this is where you obtained all that stuff you brought back to Colony 9. I wondered where you were getting it from. Dickson I thought it was fine as long as it helped Shulk out at the lab. I guess the secret's out now. [Dickson turns to Shulk.] Dickson So, that weapon. How dangerous are we talkin' about? Shulk I haven't discovered why, but it disintegrates anything it touches. But only if it's living tissue from Bionis. Dickson Bet that would come in handy. Dunban Dickson! Dickson I'm only jokin'. Anyway, for now just don't let any of it touch you. I'll come up with something to counter it. Leave it with me and I'll keep ya posted. You lot go and take care of that Egil or whatever his name is. If you take him down, the allied force might not even be needed. Shulk OK! Let me think about it for a bit. [Afterwards, Shulk visits Fiora in Linada's laboratory and takes her hand.] Shulk Fiora. [Dickson later finds Shulk outside Junks looking across the village's lake.] Dickson Ain't made your mind up yet? Shulk Dickson, listen. Dickson Dunban told me all about it. The goal of your mission. So you wanted to avenge Fiora? Shulk Yes. Dickson But you found her alive. And now you've got her back. So you're all done now, ain't ya? [Shulk sighs.] Shulk What are you fighting for, Dickson? [View of the Mechonis, high overhead, holding its sword across the sky.] Dickson Me? He just gets right under my skin. That Egil guy. Shulk Because he's trying to exterminate the Homs? Dickson There's that. But that ain't everything. [The view returns to Shulk and Dickson.] Dickson It's his hatred for the Bionis, or more like his aim to wipe out everything that lives on the Bionis. [Shulk takes a sharp breath.] Dickson I'll tell you one thing. That Bionis allied force is coming together quicker than I thought. Shulk Really? Dickson Yep. That High Entia prince is really movin' things along. Shulk Will they launch an attack on Mechonis? Dickson Of course. But it looks like the prince has got another plan. He gave me a message for you. When the allied force attacks Mechonis, you don't need to join the fight. He wants you to take advantage of the chaos and do what it is you need to do. Shulk Prince Kallian said that? Dickson I was pretty surprised too. He looks like a sissy, but he's got guts. Shulk Yeah. I think that's the type of man he is. Dickson So what are you gonna do? He wanted me to let him know. Shulk We're going to the Mechonis capital. Dickson You're gonna take down Egil? Shulk I don't know. I can't forgive the Mechon for what they've done. But after listening to Miqol, I think there might be another way. Dickson You're too soft. Shulk Do you really think that? Dickson Too right. He's the self-proclaimed leader of Mechonis. I heard about what he did to the Monado. If you face him, it might get eaten up. But you have to throw everything at him, even if there's only a slim chance of winning. Hesitate for one second and you're a goner. Fiora [O.C.] We won't let Shulk die. Not ever! [Fiora and the rest of the party walk up.] Shulk Fiora! Are you OK to be walking around? Fiora Yep! Sharla I have to hand it to her. That Linada's pretty good. And not just with machines. She's also quite familiar with organic physiology. Fiora [to Shulk] You went to get the thing she needed to cure me, right? I'm sorry I've caused all this hassle. [Shulk shakes his head.] Fiora But I'm fine now. I'll be by your side, fighting to protect you. [Fiora walks up to Dickson.] Fiora No matter where we go, no matter how difficult it gets, Shulk will do the right thing. It doesn't matter how slim our chances, Shulk will always stick to the right path. Dunban And don't forget, it's because of Shulk that we're all here, fighting together. I think that shows he has a strong character. Am I wrong, Dickson? Dickson Well, when I think about everything you lot have done, I can't deny that. Shulk Dickson, we're going to the Mechonis capital. About the allied force... Dickson Yeah, leave it to me. I ain't gonna let anything happen to the colony. Those Mechon won't get away with anything else. [Later, Miqol meets Shulk's party outside Junks, near the village entrance.] Miqol Are you going? Shulk Yes. Thank you for all your help. [Miqol laughs in gratitude.] Miqol You might run into someone called Vanea in the capital. Just mention my name and she'll lend a hand. Fiora Vanea... Shulk Is she a Machina as well? Miqol She's my daughter. She won't be far from Egil. Dunban Hold on. You mean she's Egil's sister? Miqol You've got it, lad. Shulk And you say she'll help us? Miqol The girl doesn't want to hurt Egil, but she doesn't like what he's doing. She should be a big help to you young 'uns. Shulk I dunno why she'd help us, but... We'll try and find her when we get there. [Miqol laughs again.] Miqol Good luck. [Linada comes over to Fiora.] Linada Fiora, don't forget. I've only made temporary repairs. I think you should be able to fight but don't overdo it. Come and see me the moment you experience any further system failure. Fiora I will. Thank you. Linada In the meantime, I'm hoping I'll find a way to restore your former body. Fiora Is that possible?! Linada Theoretically, it might be possible to use your genetic information to regenerate your missing organs. [Linada stops herself.] Linada Sorry. It's unfair for me to give you hope. To be honest, there's very little chance. But if there's even the slightest possibility, I have to try. Fiora Thank you, Linada! Shulk Fiora... [Fiora giggles.] Fiora Don't make that face! OK, let's go! [Dickson watches the group from a distance, unseen.] Dickson Off ya go, kid. I'm counting on you and the Monado. Don't let me down, Shulk. [Meanwhile, deep within Mechonis, Egil utilises a pair of discs to interact with his Face units. The view shifts to what he sees, into the minds of the Homs converted into Mechon. As he comes to Fiora, there is a flashback to his battle with her Mechon at Galahad Fortress.] Egil Why did that Face betray me? [Flashback to Fiora/Meyneth's intense energy attack that destroyed part of Galahad Fortress.] Egil And that light. No. That is not possible. [Back to the present.] Egil It must have been remnants of memories from her former life that made me lose control. [The view shifts again to the scattered Homs minds under Egil's control.] Egil Memories. [He pauses on Mumkhar's.] Egil They are what limited the potential of Metal Face as well. [The view shifts outwards to Egil again.] Egil I now know that I must erase every last trace of what they once were. All my servants need is the instinct to fight. [Back into the minds of his imprisoned Homs, Egil locates one that fixates on images of Sharla.] Egil This Homs female. She was with the boy who wields the Monado. [The view shifts back out to Egil.] Egil The light of her memory. It shines strongly in this one. [Egil turns to someone off-screen.] Egil Bring me Face 20814! [A short time later, Egil stands before this particular Face, who is confined on the other side of a glass enclosure.] Egil So it is this male. [Momentary flashback to Shulk at Galahad Fortress.] Egil The boy, Shulk, remains a thorn in my side. I will enjoy watching my minion crush him. [This green Face unit is shown struggling in his holding place as electric energy courses throughout his frame.] Egil Be still, my servant. I see that your memories cause you much suffering. [The Face appears to scream. From his view, Sharla appears against a black backdrop, smiles, then the view cuts off abruptly.] [Meanwhile, Shulk's party prepare to depart Hidden Machina Village.] Linada Shulk, take this. Shulk What is it? [The view shifts to Digit 2 and, beyond it, the Mechonis itself. The view closes on the Rotating Bulkhead leading to the Mechonis.] Linada There's a path leading from the base of Digit 2 to the foot of the Mechonis. This is the security key to the door that seals the path. We who live in the village don't have any need for it, but it will be invaluable to you. [The view returns to Hidden Village.] Shulk We're in your debt. Linada. Linada Shulk, Fiora... Take care on your journey. Shulk We will. Fiora Linada, thank you for everything. [After leaving the village, the party travel up the path leading from Digit 2 onwards. The group stop for one last view of the outside world. The view pans across both titans, towering high above the party.] Shulk Bionis and Mechonis. Fiora It's so different seeing them from this kind of perspective. Melia We cannot see it from here, but our people are still fighting up there. Shulk It's difficult to believe that two such huge things ever fought each other. I wonder how the Machina felt at the time. Reyn Must've been horrible. Fiora Scary too. Dunban Fear robs us of reason. Out of fear we commit terrible atrocities and call them acts of self-preservation. Shulk Fear gives rise to more fear. A never-ending circle of hatred. Melia Perhaps that circle can be broken? Shulk Fear. It must be what's driving this. What's made Egil act this way. [As Fiora looks around, her eyes start to glow red like a Mechon's.] [Soon, the party enter the Mechonis via the Left Leg Cooling Outlet.] [Mechonis area intro: Mechonis Field] [The group pause to take in their surroundings. There is machinery as far as the eye can see: conveyor belts, lifts, pistons, engines, with no visible ceiling or end.] Sharla We're inside the Mechonis. Reyn Just how I imagined it. It's all totally mechanical. It ain't gonna be easy getting up this thing. Shulk Egil is at the top... [A short distance later, at the 2nd Lift on the ground floor, Shulk stops at an inactive switch.] Reyn What's up, Shulk? Shulk Look. It's a switch to activate a lift. If we can get it to work, it should take us up. Riki Riki want to ride lift! [Riki begins walking towards the lift.] Shulk We can't. There's no power going to it. Riki Boring! Sharla What do we do? Shulk Well, if we could find the main power supply... Reyn OK people, let's get lookin'. Shulk Yeah. If we can connect the power to the switch, we should be able to use the lift. [The party have to get a couple different lifts like this working again. After ascendng numerous lifts, they release the Bulkhead to get outside.] Reyn Whoa, don't look down! Anyone know where we are? Other than high up? Fiora Maybe...somewhere around the thigh? Reyn The thigh? You mean we ain't even half way there yet? Shulk Stop moaning about it. Look. We can make camp over there. [Shulk turns towards an alcove in the Mechonis' side.] Shulk Let's rest for a while. [After making camp, Dunban comes over to where Fiora is resting.] Dunban Fiora, are you sure you're feeling OK? Fiora I feel a bit like I haven't got used to this body yet. But please, whatever you do, don't tell Shulk about it. [Dunban sits down next to her.] Fiora I'm sorry, Dunban. Dunban Don't worry about it. [Dunban pours water from his flask.] Dunban Back when my arm was injured, it was you who took care of me. [He passes her a cup of water.] Fiora I'd almost forgotten. It seems so long ago now. [Nearby, Sharla struggles to take apart her rifle. It's the same one previously owned by Gadolt, which Otharon gave to her in the Ether Mine. Reyn comes along and disassembles it for her.] Sharla Thanks, Reyn. Reyn Doing a spot of maintenance? Sharla Yep. The sighting's been a bit off lately. [Behind her, Shulk works on Reyn's weapon.] Shulk You know, Miqol let us have some new parts. I could make you a new rifle if you want. Sharla Thanks. But I want to keep using this one for now. Reyn Shulk, get a clue, man! It's more than just a weapon to her. She can't just throw it away and get a new one. Shulk Yeah. I suppose so. [Shulk lifts Reyn's heavy driver weapon with difficulty and hands it to him. Reyn takes it and pats it.] Reyn If she let anything happen to it, I bet she'd get a whack from old Otharon. [Sharla smiles appreciatively at Reyn.] [Flashback to Sharla and Gadolt in Colony 6, the latter doing maintenance on the same rifle that Sharla now wields in the present.] Sharla Doesn't my man ever rest? Gadolt Not a chance. The lives of everyone in the colony rely on the Defence Force. Our readiness and our will to keep on fighting. Sharla We never know when the Mechon will strike next. Gadolt No. But I won't let anyone else die! [Another flashback: Sharla and Gadolt stand outside Colony 6, the latter firing his rifle at metal targets in a futile rage.] Gadolt I... If only I had more power! Sharla Stop it! Gadolt, it's not your fault. Gadolt We lost thirty men in Fortress Three alone! Sharla Listen to me! Nobody knew that so many Mechon would come! More people would've died if it wasn't for you! [Gadolt stops shooting.] Gadolt It's not about reducing casualties. We lost thirty men and we've lost the fortress. Those men died for nothing! Sharla Would their deaths have meaning if we'd won?! [Gadolt hesitates with a sigh.] Gadolt Yes. At least they would have died for something. This is the end now. It's either the Mechon or us. [Gadolt resumes firing, more fervently than before, while Sharla covers her ears. By now, the metal targets are riddled with holes and barely intact.] Gadolt I don't care if I'm the last man standing. I'll take them down! [Back in the present, Sharla and Reyn sit together at Mechonis Field.] Sharla Hey, Reyn. Reyn What is it? Sharla Do you want to beat the Mechon? Reyn Of course. What you askin' that for? Sharla At any cost? Even if it means giving your own life? Reyn Giving my own life? No way. I can't do anything if I'm dead. [Reyn gets to his feet.] Reyn I'm gonna take down the Mechon and survive. And there's no way I'm gonna lose Shulk, Fiora or you along the way. We're all gonna win this and get out alive! [Sharla gets to her feet as well.] Sharla If only we all thought like you. Reyn What do you mean?! Sharla It's charming. Reyn What?! [Later, after a sufficient rest, Dunban addresses the group.] Dunban We should get moving. We don't have time to hang around. Sharla Reyn, did you rest well? Reyn Yeah! I feel great! Dunban It looks like we're about to re-enter the Mechonis. Brace yourselves. Shulk Got it! [As the party cross the bridge at the Patella Exhaust on their way to re-enter the Mechonis, the group are in the sights of a Mechon. Dunban alone notices, and the view changes to show the green-faced Mechon, whom Egil had chosen earlier, watching the group from a high perch. Upon being noticed, the Face leaps out of sight. Dunban continues looking out at the place where the Mechon had been spying them out.] Riki Dundun! You OK? Dunban Oh, it's nothing. Just my imagination. [Dunban and Riki follow the others back inside the Mechonis.] [After providing power to the High-Velocity Lift Panel, the party then ride this High-Velocity Lift up to the 1st Zebrai Bulkhead on the highest level of Mechonis Field. Upon arriving, Fiora suddenly moans and collapses. Shulk steadies her, then places a hand on her shoulder; Melia puts a hand on her other shoulder as Sharla runs up.] Shulk Are you OK? Melia She looks very tired. Should she not get some rest? [Shulk steps back so Sharla can examine Fiora.] Fiora Thank you. But really, I'm OK. Dunban No. We'll find a safe place to rest. We've hardly stopped since we left the village. Riki Riki tired too. Riki tummy rumble. Reyn I'm with you. [Sharla helps Fiora back to her feet.] Reyn Time to park our- Shulk Get down! [A large blast erupts nearby, leaving a wide radius of molten floor.] Dunban A Mechon assault! Can anyone see them?! [The party draw their weapons. Reyn stands back to back with Shulk.] Reyn Another vision? Nice one, Shulk! Shulk No. It wasn't. Fiora Shulk? [The green-faced Mechon flies in and lands in front of the group.] Jade Face You did well to evade me. Just what you'd expect from he who wields the Monado. Sharla That voice! Dunban It's a faced Mechon! Shulk Is there someone inside? Reyn What do we do, Shulk? Shulk We fight. But don't kill him. Reyn Thought you might say that. [In a single leap, Jade Face soars down to the other end of the vast corridor, roaring a battle cry as he lands.] [The team manage to defeat the faced Mechon. At the end of the battle, Sharla runs towards him.] Reyn Sharla! Sharla Gadolt! It's you, isn't it? Please answer me! Let me see you! [Gadolt emerges from the back of Jade Face, equipped with a Mechon body similar to Fiora's and Mumkhar's. He stands on the Mechon's shoulder.] Sharla Gadolt! I knew you were alive. Reyn Gadolt?! Shulk Is that Sharla's boyfriend? Gadolt The destruction of the Monado. That is the will of Lord Egil. [Dunban brandishes his sword, but Reyn waves him down and shakes his head.] Sharla Gadolt?! Shulk What do you mean, Lord? What's Egil done to you? Sharla What's wrong, Gadolt?! Why would you say that?! Speak to me, Gadolt! Gadolt This world is in disarray. I must eliminate the cause of this disorder and restore the world to its original form. [The view starts shifting to Egil and back intermittently.] Gadolt That is my duty. Gadolt [and Egil] Nay, the will of the world! Now the time has come. The time to restore order! [Gadolt raises a hand, and Jade Face elevates off the ground. A cannon in the Mechon's arm opens and starts charging up an attack.] Sharla Gadolt! Stop! [Sharla raises her rifle. But just as she lowers her weapon, Gadolt fires.] Sharla Gadolt... Reyn Sharla! [Reyn grabs Sharla and attempts to pull her out of harm's way. Time slows down as Gadolt's blast soars towards the group. Fiora's eyes suddenly glow red, and red light emanates from her body as the blast hits, consuming everything in sight. The screen flashes to white.] [In the Mechonis capital, beneath the Meyneth Shrine, Egil stands underneath his golden Mechon and studies a couple displays, which wink out when he finishes with them.] Egil Lady Meyneth. It is not far off now. A world in which there is no need for fear. The hour draws near. Our will shall soon be done. [Momentary flashbacks to a horde of Telethia charging, then to Zanza swinging the Monado multiple times.] Egil First there is the matter of the Monado. [Egil summons a couple discs to his hands, the same that he used previously to examine the Faces.] Egil Our victory can only be assured if we destroy the Monado before it's too late. [A number of Homs minds whiz past for Egil's observation.] Egil I sense your existence. I know you are alive. [Egil puts the two discs away.] Egil Zanza. The hour is upon us. Your time has come. [The walls of the Meyneth Cloister light up as Egil faces the Bionis from the vast windows of the capital, which serve as the grill on the mouth of the Mechonis. Outside, the eyes of the Mechonis glow menacingly and smoke pours out of its mouth from the capital.] [Meanwhile, Shulk floats freely in what appears to be outer space. Alvis' disembodied voice calls to an unconscious Shulk within this Memory Space.] Alvis [V.O.] Shulk. Shulk. Shulk Who's calling my name? Alvis [V.O.] Shulk. You have acquired the ability to glimpse the future. The ability to understand the law of causality as decided by a higher power. Shulk A higher power? Like the Bionis? Alvis [V.O.] Why do you desire to change the future? Why do you wish to act against their will? Shulk I do just as anyone would do. It is natural to want to change an unhappy future. If that is their will, then I choose to fight. Alvis [V.O.] If that is what you wish, Shulk, then you must find your Monado. Shulk My Monado? [Flashback to Shulk as a child on Valak Mountain in the snowstorm.] Alvis [V.O.] Precisely. [Flashback to young Shulk in Ose Tower looking towards the altar that had held the Monado.] Alvis [V.O.] The one true Monado. [Young Shulk sees someone else at the end of the corridor where the Monado had been; the Monado is not there now.] ??? You can't do that. [The other boy, who bears an uncanny resemblance to young Shulk, now walks towards him.] ??? Because... You aren't here. Not anymore. [Young Shulk gasps, which is heard in the current Shulk's voice.] [Back at Mechonis Field, Shulk comes to, and sees a large cloud of smoke obscuring the ground. He turns around to check on the others, who are all just managing to get to their feet.] Shulk Is everyone OK? Fiora Yeah. Reyn That was a close one. I mean, how on Bionis did we survive that? We seem all right. [The sky is clear above steel beams overhead. Aside from the smoke, everything seems intact. Gadolt and his Face unit are gone.] Dunban I dunno. It could be that we were just lucky. But I'm sure there must be more to it than that. Vanea [O.C.] You were protected by the power of Lady Meyneth. [Dunban draws his sword.] Dunban Who's there? [A Machina woman, Vanea, walks slowly towards the party.] Melia A Machina? Fiora Are you Vanea? Reyn Vanea? Does that mean you're Miqol's daughter? Vanea I am glad you are safe, Lady Meyneth. [The subsequent view of Fiora shows to whom she is referring.] Shulk Lady Meyneth? [Vanea begins her explanation.] Vanea That Face was sent to destroy you. I am truly happy you are all right. Sharla You're lying! Gadolt would never try and hurt us! Vanea Sadly his Homs memories no longer remain. The current Faces are nothing more than weapons designed to annihilate all life on Bionis. Sharla It can't be! Vanea Faces are created by directly integrating the brain stem and metabolic organs of Homs into Mechon. Memories and emotion are nothing but a hindrance to an effective weapon. However, the early Faces were experimental. Many retained memories from their former lives. This prevented them from executing their missions effectively. More recent Faces have had all memories of their previous lives completely erased. Fiora Is that because of me? Vanea No. It is not your fault. Dunban Mumkhar seems the more likely candidate. His attachment to us was too strong. You could say it caused his destruction. Reyn That Xord one 'n' all. Vanea You are correct. Sharla No. It's not true. My Gadolt... Reyn Sharla? Shulk Explain it to me. I mean, why does Egil want to make us into Mechon? What's the reason for all this? Vanea In order to counter the Monado. Reyn I knew it. Vanea The Monado is ineffective against the High Entia, the Homs - against all races of Bionis. Egil suffered a bitter defeat in the battle one year ago. After that, he theorised that he could counter the Monado by integrating organic life from Bionis. Dunban Of course. Initially, the Monado couldn't take a Homs life. Reyn It can now though. Vanea It could not harm those who share the blood of Zanza. That was its sole weakness. But Zanza lifted that constraint. Dunban Those who share the blood of Zanza? Who is that giant? Vanea The progenitor of the Homs. Dunban Him?! Vanea And once the friend of my brother Egil, before they became sworn enemies. It was Zanza who devastated Mechonis. Shulk What?! [Meanwhile, Homs soldiers march across Sword Valley as Nopon and High Entia, all armed and ready for war, follow behind.] Imperial Guard [O.C.] Wow! Look at that! [High Entia ships, almost organic looking, soar overhead as Otharon looks on from his position on the ground next to an Imperial Guard.] Otharon Are they the Havres?! Imperial Guard They're the latest anti-Mechon weapons designed by Lorithia and the Ministry of Research. [Kallian rides in the lead Havres, with Alvis and a pair of Imperial Guards with him.] Kallian What a glorious sight. The coming together of all the peoples of Bionis. Imperial Guard Yes, sir! Kallian This is how it should always have been. Then perhaps father would not- Imperial Guard Your Highness. [Dickson flies up alongside them in his own Havres.] Kallian We are fortunate that Dickson informed us of the enemy's new weapon. Our defences are ready. Kallian [to the allied force] Today we start our campaign against Galahad Fortress. Just beyond the fortress lies the imperial capital of Mechonis! This is a battle to determine not just our own fates, but the future of all life on Bionis! We fight for future prosperity and the glory and honour of all! Troops! Advance! [The Havres fly in the direction of Galahad Fortress.] [Back at Mechonis Field, the party continue their discussion with Vanea.] Shulk Are you saying that Zanza is to blame for Mechonis' devastation?! It's Zanza's sword that I'm using! Does this mean we're enemies?! And if so, why are you... Reyn Shulk! Calm down! Shulk Sorry...I... Vanea I will take you to the Mechonis capital, Agniratha. Dunban Is that your plan? Lead us straight to the gates of our enemy? Deliver us into Egil's hands? Vanea It will be quicker to show you than to explain. Then you will understand the history of Mechonis and the battle between the two titans. [Vanea gestures to the end of the 2nd Gamalt Bulkhead behind the party.] Vanea Up ahead is a lift that leads to the Central Factory within the chest of the Mechonis. The capital, Agniratha, lies just beyond there. [Shulk and his companions ascend the lift indicated by Vanea.] [Mechonis area intro: Mechonis Central Factory] [Vanea leads Shulk's group into the Central Factory via the Port Terminal. They see the Central Gate before them and the Central Tower beyond.] Vanea This is the Central Factory, within the chest of the Mechonis. Can you see the ring up ahead? [View of the golden rings above the Central Tower.] Vanea At the base of that ring is a transporter that leads to Agniratha. We must first head there. [Vanea turns back to the party.] Vanea This place is full of autonomous security Mechon. Tread carefully. [Later, after Shulk's party have made their way through the Central Factory, battle is joined outside at Sword Valley.] Dunga [O.C.] Advance, Nopon heroes! [Pterix carrying Nopon fly high overhead as Homs soldiers charge ahead behind Andos units to exchange fire with Mechon off-screen. Colonel Vangarre surveys the battlefield and sighs with satisfaction. Nearby, Dickson's Havres lands next to Otharon.] Otharon I see you've finally decided to show up. Let's see if we can bust these rust buckets like last time! Dickson Think we can do it? Otharon We'll get them. With this many troops on our side, we don't even need Shulk's help. Dickson You tellin' me you're more worried about the kid's schedule?! Kinda soft for you, Otharon. Otharon Shut up! Get moving! [Dickson flies off. Above, other Havres continue to approach Galahad Fortress as Kallian directs the battle.] Kallian Division 4, defend the barrier. Division 6, assist any wounded Homs. [The view shifts to a line of Homs defenders charging ahead with Andos units in front providing shield protection. Colonel Vangarre is among the soldiers.] Vangarre Bring it on! These High Entia may be a bunch of sissies, but they've got some pretty nifty gear! [Otharon watches Vangarre's charge from afar.] Otharon That idiot! He'll get his head knocked off at this rate! [Otharon signals for the mobile artillery stationed behind him to open fire. Ahead, the Mechon advance, but they're taking casualties.] Dunga [O.C.] Keep it up! Show everyone the power of the Nopon! [The Nopon fly their Pterix into the Mechon, one damaging a unit until it collapses to the ground, sparking from the damage. The Nopon being carried by this particular Pterix celebrate.] Nopon Go, Nopon, go! Nopon Fight like our Heropon, Riki! [The Havres above are facing little resistance.] Kallian It appears we have gained the upper hand. Imperial Guard Sire. If we hold our current position, a great victory is within our grasp. Alvis It is still too early to come to that conclusion. The enemy still has hidden forces. Imperial Guard Your Highness! Enemy reinforcements approaching from above. It's a Face squadron! [Faced Mechon fly into the allied force's path, unfolding themselves in mid-air and drawing deadly green spears.] Kallian They're here. [The Faces throw their spears, causing the Homs soldiers on the ground to scatter as their Andos shields are struck down. These Faces then land among the Homs left behind. Above them, a Face unit off-screen shoots down a Havres next to Kallian's.] Kallian Divisions 1 to 3, continue supporting the Homs and encircle the Faces. Imperial Guard Your Highness, think of yourself! Kallian Once the vanguard has been eliminated, we must join the fight. Better that than die as cowards. Move! [Dickson's Havres races along the ground as he laughs in satisfaction. He aims for a group of Faces dead ahead.] Dickson Stick this in your exhaust pipe and smoke it! [Still firing, Dickson runs over two Faces and dodges several spear tosses from Faces above him. He flies upwards towards them and unleashes a grappling hook from his vehicle that grabs one of the Mechon's spears.] Dickson Who hasn't had a taste yet?! Eat this! [Dickson's Havres hurtles the spear right back at the faced Mechon, who are destroyed by the attack.] Dickson Should have stayed at home! Lousy junk bots! [In her own Havres, Lorithia observes the ongoing battle.] Lorithia They're doing rather well. I do so enjoy a good show. But they have yet to unleash their power and fulfil their true potential. [On the ground, soldiers can see more explosions above them.] Vangarre Deadbeat drones! Come out and face us like real machines! I'll sort out the lot of you, scum! [The allied force continues charging ahead.] [Mechonis area intro: Mechonis Capital Agniratha] [Meanwhile, Shulk and his companions have arrived in Agniratha at last. The ancient capital, though apparently once glorious, is now a long abandoned ruin. A vast, sword-like tower rises from the midst of the city.] Shulk So this is the Mechonis capital. Vanea Yes, Agniratha. The heart of the Machina civilisation. Melia It looks so desolate. Like there are no signs of anyone living here. Dunban It truly is a soulless city. Riki Here bad place. Riki want to go. Reyn So the Machina built this whole city? Not too shabby. Shulk It looks like the buildings have been here for a very long time. Riki Look, Shulk! [Riki has found the fossilised remains of a Telethia.] Riki Dinobeast! Dinobeast eat city! Reyn A Dinobeast? Here? [The party gather around the creature.] Shulk But how? Melia It is a Telethia! Sharla It looks like it's stone. [The view shifts to other such Telethia scattered about the city.] Melia Why would there be a Telethia in a place like this? Vanea The fossilised Telethia are what remain of the beasts that attacked the capital in the ancient battle. Sharla Why did the Telethia attack your city? [The view shifts back to Sharla and the party.] Sharla Wasn't the ancient battle only between the Bionis and the Mechonis themselves? Vanea The answer to your question can be found in that tower, the Data Centre. [Vanea faces the Central Tower as the view pans up it.] Vanea It is better that you see with your own eyes. [The view returns to Vanea and the rest of the group.] Vanea Only then will you truly understand what happened between the Bionis and the Mechonis. [The party ascend the Central Tower and enter the Data Centre.] Shulk It looks like the power's up and running. [Fiora suddenly gasps and closes her eyes.] Melia Fiora, what's the matter? [As Fiora reopens her eyes, they now glow red. She walks forward.] Fiora Everyone follow me. [The group obey. Vanea seems taken aback. Eyes still glowing, Fiora activates the console, putting both hands on two discs, and a holographic image of Agniratha materialises before the group.] Reyn What is that?! [Shulk goes up to inspect it.] Shulk It looks like it's here. But it's just an image. Reyn No way! [Reyn comes in for a closer look.] Reyn Whoa, you're right! [Fiora removes her hands and begins to speak, at first with two voices.] Fiora [and Meyneth] These are memories of a time long forgotten. Shulk Fiora! [Shulk goes to intervene but is stopped by Dunban.] Dunban Hey. [Dunban shakes his head, signaling Shulk to let Fiora continue.] Fiora [and Meyneth] They were left behind by the Machina, before they abandoned this place so that others may know their story. Shulk Her voice sounds like... [By now, Fiora speaks with Lady Meyneth's voice only.] Fiora [as Meyneth] In ancient times, [The image of Agniratha is replaced by the Bionis and the Mechonis.] Fiora [as Meyneth] when the Bionis and the Mechonis came into existence, I was born as well. [A light appears on the tip of the Bionis' horn.] Fiora [as Meyneth] Just as the Bionis had a soul, [The view shifts to the image of the Mechonis.] Fiora [as Meyneth] I came to exist in this world [The view shifts to the Meyneth Shrine.] Fiora [as Meyneth] as the soul of the Mechonis. [The image of the Mechonis begins to move. The view shifts to Agniratha in ancient times, when it was a thriving capital. Machina walk the streets.] Fiora [as Meyneth] I created my children on Mechonis and acquired this body. [A Mechon is shown walking peacefully amongst the Machina.] Fiora [as Meyneth] They called themselves Machina. And Mechonis was transformed into a world brimming with life. [A male and female Machina look down on their new child. The view shifts to the Central Tower, looking up to its peak.] Fiora [as Meyneth] The Machina gave rise to an advanced civilization [The view shifts to an aerial look at the capital in its entirety.] Fiora [as Meyneth] and built this great city. [The view returns to the party in the Data Centre.] Sharla This city? Reyn Can't believe it used to be so lively. [The view shifts back to the Machina in ancient Agniratha. Miqol laughs with his children, including Egil and Vanea.] Fiora [as Meyneth] They lived their lives in peace and harmony. [Egil kneels before the Meyneth Shrine. The view pans down to show other Machina doing the same.] Fiora [as Meyneth] The gentle Machina worshipped me. [The view returns to Fiora and the party.] Fiora [as Meyneth] Life also flourished on Bionis. [Fiora brings up an image of the Bionis. Various creatures are shown living harmoniously in Makna Forest. A pair of Machina walk across a rope bridge. On the other side of it, they meet a Giant who appears to be Zanza, as well as a High Entia.] Fiora [as Meyneth] The Machina generously shared the fruits of their civilization with the peoples of the Bionis. [As the Giant shakes hands with the Machina, the Bionis and the Mechonis are shown facing each other peacefully. The view then returns to the party again.] Fiora [as Meyneth] They believed their two worlds would grow, hand in hand. [The view shifts back to the Machina and Mechon in Agniratha.] Fiora [as Meyneth] Then a terrible fate descended on them from above. [The view zooms in on the child from an earlier image. Then his Machina parents look up in alarm as the screen fades to white. The source of this dangerous new light is then shown to be the sword of the Bionis, the Monado, which is thrust through the Mechonis. The party members react in alarm.] Dunban Is that the Monado? Shulk But why? Why would the Bionis...? Fiora [as Meyneth] Wielding the sword of light, [The view cuts back to the Bionis' attack on the Mechonis.] Fiora [as Meyneth] the Bionis attempted to destroy the Machina. [Debris sweeps through Agniratha. Machina residents try to hold on, but are inexorably swept out of the Mechonis. Another group of Machina attempt to flee the capital, but swarms of Telethia fly in. Melia gasps.] Melia Are those Telethia?! [The Telethia continue to pour in and begin attacking the Machina.] Fiora [as Meyneth] I tried to save the Machina, and confronted the Bionis. [The view returns to the party in the Data Centre.] Fiora [as Meyneth] And so I confronted Zanza. Shulk Zanza?! [The Bionis is shown, with glowing eyes, as it brings the Monado down like a hammer stroke. The Mechonis catches the blade in its hand, pushing it aside and then bringing up its mechanical sword to parry the Monado.] Fiora [as Meyneth] The battle waged on and on. Even as our life forces depleted, Zanza and I continued to fight. [Shulk's group watches the titanic duel in awe.] Fiora [as Meyneth] However, it did at last come to an end. [The Bionis cuts off the Mechonis' arm with the Monado; it falls into the sea as the Mechonis fights on. As the Bionis raises its blade for the final blow, the Mechonis swings its sword into the Bionis' side. Within, Zanza is shown crying out in pain.] Melia The Giant. [The Bionis' head leans forward, and its eyes grow dim. Both titans are shown in their now current inactive state. Zanza is next shown in his shackles at Prison Island.] Shulk This is when Zanza was imprisoned! Fiora [as Meyneth] Taking advantage of my final blow to the Bionis, its beings took Zanza and sealed him firmly away. [The light of the Bionis' sword shrinks to a state that can no longer be held by the titan. The Monado then floats away. The Mechonis is still. Within, the corpses of Telethia litter the streets of Agniratha as fires rage in the city.] Fiora [as Meyneth] However, the battle with Zanza had greatly consumed my life force. [A few Machina that are still left in the capital drop to their knees before the Meyneth Shrine.] Fiora [as Meyneth] I warned the surviving Machina that the Bionis had not yet been destroyed, [Flashback to Zanza's shackles being released at Prison Island.] Fiora [as Meyneth] and that one day he would be released. [Shulk gasps in realisation.] Shulk I'm the one who released him! [Lady Meyneth is shown entering the portal at the back of her Shrine in front of Egil, Vanea and other Machina survivors.] Fiora [as Meyneth] I then entered a long and deep slumber, in preparation for Zanza's inevitable reawakening. [Fiora's eyes return to normal, and the image of Agniratha winks out. After a brief silence, Fiora speaks to the one who had spoken through her.] Fiora It's all clear to me. What you wanted to do. Stop the battle between the Bionis and the Mechonis. Shulk Fiora. [Shulk comes to Fiora's side.] Shulk I see now. It was her inside you. Vanea Yes. Lady Meyneth desired a body in which she could be free. And after you were captured by Egil's Mechon, it was I who transferred her soul into your body. [Dunban turns his head aside at this news.] Fiora But why did it have to be my body? Vanea Because... You are close to Shulk, the Heir to the Monado. [Shulk gasps.] [With the history of Mechonis now told, the group follow Vanea out of the Central Tower back onto the streets of the capital.] Fiora It was all because of our world, because of Bionis, that this city was devastated. Shulk Now I understand why Egil would want to stop the Bionis from reawakening. Reyn I get it too, but how's killing any of us going to solve his problem? Dunban Precisely. What happened to the Machina was a tragedy, but we cannot forgive the Mechon attack on Bionis. Melia What worries me is the Monado that the Bionis used. It's no different from how the legends describe, but still... Shulk It must hold a deadly power. Dunban But you have used it wisely, Shulk. It has not overwhelmed you as it did me. Reyn He's right! If you hadn't been using the Monado, we wouldn't have lasted five minutes. Shulk But it was Zanza who bestowed this sword upon me. Vanea However, it is not Zanza who now wields the Monado. It is you, Shulk. [Shulk takes in a sharp breath.] Vanea That is also the reason why Meyneth chose Fiora as a vessel. So that the tragedy of he who wields the Monado would not be repeated. Shulk The tragedy of he who wields the Monado? Vanea Shulk... Believe. Believe in the path you have chosen and those who walk it with you. Meyneth once said this of the Monado. The Monado is not simply a unique weapon. It is the light within each and every person in this world. Shulk Light? What do you mean? Vanea It is the light of life, the will to survive no matter what. Perhaps Lady Meyneth was drawn to your light. [The party look off towards the Meyneth Cloister.] Vanea Beyond there lies the Meyneth Shrine. Egil will be there. Is it still your intention to defeat Egil? That has not changed? Shulk We understand the history of Mechonis now. If he is willing to listen, we will try to reason with him. But if not... Vanea I understand. Then if that is your decision, so be it. [Vanea turns to leave.] Vanea I will try to persuade Egil one last time. But I am prepared for his refusal. [Vanea disappears in a hidden transporter.] Fiora Vanea... [The friends circle up to discuss their next step.] Sharla I know Vanea said she'll try to persuade him, but she didn't sound confident. Shulk We have to go after her. Reyn But how do we get to the shrine from here? Fiora Up ahead is a transporter leading to the shrine. But it's inactive. We need to trigger the Verification Devices to activate it. [View of one of the four pillars, with a Verification Device within.] Fiora We'll find one at the top of each of the four pillars. If we trigger them all, we can use the transporter. [The view returns to the party.] Riki How Fiora know that? Fiora Meyneth's memories... She tells me these things. Shulk Do you know how to trigger them? Fiora Maybe my body itself is the key. Shulk OK. Then let's get searching. [The team use the Verification Devices on the four pillars to unlock the transporter. As they arrive at the Shrine Transporter on the Worship Terrace, Shulk stops suddenly.] Shulk Look out! [He uses the Monado to bat aside an energy blast as Gadolt soars overhead in his Jade Face Mechon.] Sharla It's him! [As Gadolt lands, the party run towards him; all of them except Sharla have their weapons out.] Sharla Gadolt! Shulk That's the second time I've sensed an attack without seeing a vision first. Gadolt Your mastery of the Monado is astonishing. You cannot be permitted to live. Sharla Gadolt, stop! Why are you fighting us?! Remember who you are! [Reyn places himself in front of her.] Reyn It's no good! He's completely under Egil's control now. Remember what Vanea told us! Sharla I can't believe it. I won't believe it! [Sharla pushes past Reyn.] Sharla Gadolt, please! Answer me! [Instead of answering Sharla, Gadolt initiates battle with the group.] [Gadolt, still within Jade Face, battles Shulk's group to a stalemate.] Reyn How can you lay a hand on Sharla?! You're supposed to love her, marry her even! Gadolt I don't know or care! It changes nothing. Sharla No. You always protected me and Juju. This isn't you! Gadolt I said I don't know you! I have been granted this body of steel so that Egil's will may be done! This body feels great! Its movement is so precise! We are unstoppable, for we are one! Perfect, in body and mind! Reyn You don't have to do this! Look at Fiora, she found herself again. Whatever you are, you must still feel pain! Gadolt Absurd! Reyn Well then finish us off! Sharla 'n' all! We all saw you miss a second ago! Ain't you supposed to be a crack shot?! Or did that pile of junk you call a body mess up your aim?! Gadolt Shut your mouth! [Gadolt launches multiple beam attacks that hit each party member one by one - all except Sharla, whom his attack misses. There is smoke on the ground as the others slowly stand back up.] Reyn Stubborn idiot! That was your last chance! Dunban He's not giving up. The stories about Gadolt of Colony 6 are true. Shulk Except... he still can't kill her. He's missing Sharla on purpose! [Gadolt steps closer.] Fiora Gadolt... You're just like I was. You can remember who you are. Sharla Gadolt, please! Don't you remember me?! It's Sharla! [Gadolt aims his shoulder cannons.] Gadolt Wither and die, as all life on Bionis will! Feel our wrath! [Light emanates from the Monado, casting Shulk in a blue hue.] Fiora [and Meyneth] Shulk... [Fiora comes up to him, her eyes red and her body casting a red hue.] Fiora [and Meyneth] Can you still use the Monado? Shulk Fiora? No... You're... [Fiora walks past the others, her body glowing red.] Fiora [and Meyneth] Even after losing all living flesh, a Homs' heart will remain. [Fiora eyes Sharla in particular as she comes to her.] Fiora [and Meyneth] It is still present within this Face. Sharla Is that true?! Fiora [and Meyneth] Yes. It is clear from his actions towards you. The remnants of his heart... pull him back. Sharla Gadolt... [Fiora, still glowing, approaches Gadolt and turns to the rest of the party.] Fiora [and Meyneth] I will break the curse that allows Egil to control the Faces. I need you to buy me some time. Shulk OK. We'll try! Reyn! We've got to help Fiora! Reyn Eh?! Shulk Come on! Reyn Right! [The others dash past Sharla and Fiora to re-engage Gadolt.] [After the team have weakened Gadolt as much as they can, Fiora and Meyneth are ready. Red waves flow out from Fiora's chest component. Gadolt and his Mechon are knocked back by the waves of this Final Cross. He cries out, and when Meyneth is finished, his Mechon collapses to one knee, its frame sparking. Fiora then reins in the remaining red energy.] Shulk Fiora? Was that you or... [The rest of the red energy dissipates, and Fiora nods, satisfied.] Fiora As for him...he'll be fine. Don't worry. [A small explosion from Jade Face knocks Gadolt out of the Face unit and onto the ground.] Sharla Gadolt! [Sharla runs up to Gadolt and grabs him by the shoulders to help him up.] Gadolt Forgive me Sharla. [He collapses back to the ground, hardly able to move on his own.] Gadolt I... Sharla It's OK... It's all right now... I'm just so happy to have you back. Gadolt While I was under his control, I realised something. [Shulk walks towards them.] Gadolt Egil... once wished only to break the circle of suffering. He believed that... [Sharla continues to caress Gadolt's face.] Gadolt if blood is spilt now, a new world will be born. But something terrible happened. [Fiora walks towards them as well.] Gadolt And now... Now...he is consumed with vengeance. Fiora Egil... [Gadolt grabs Sharla intensely.] Gadolt Go! Get out of here! Stop them doing what they did to me to anyone else! Sharla I promise I'll be back for you. Until then...stay safe. [Sharla embraces him. As she goes to join the others at the Shrine Transporter, Reyn turns around and tosses Gadolt a flask of water.] Reyn Drink it. You must be thirsty. Gadolt Thanks. Reyn Don't go dying on us. After we take Egil down, we'll get you looked at. Gadolt You don't look like any doctor I've ever seen. Reyn I know a good doctor nearby. She is Machina though. Gadolt It'll do. I'll be right here. [Reyn turns to go.] Gadolt Hey. Kid. What's your name? Reyn Reyn. Gadolt Do me a favour, Reyn. Take care of Sharla. [Reyn gives him a thumbs up and departs. Sharla, the last to leave, takes one last look at Gadolt before following Reyn into the transporter. Alone, Gadolt rests against his Mechon unit.] [Meanwhile back at Sword Valley, the allied force continues their assault against the Mechon. Homs soldiers and Andos units take down a faced Mechon as Havres fly overhead, emptying fire into enemy targets. Kallian notices Alvis with his eyes closed and his hand near his face.] Kallian Seer, what is it? Alvis I have...an unpleasant feeling. Kallian A vision? Alvis No... But something is not right. The Mechon are neither attacking nor defending. It is as if they abandoned the fight as soon as it began. Kallian Impossible. This is a key strategic position. They would never abandon it. Perhaps they have forces hidden on Mechonis? Alvis Hidden forces... Could it be?! Your Highness, Shulk and the others are in danger. Will you grant me the use of a Havres? Kallian You intend to aid them? I need you here! Alvis I did not have a vision, but nevertheless... I can sense something. [Alvis looks beyond Kallian to the Mechonis looming in the distance.] Alvis The Mechonis is awakening. [Soon, as Shulk's party are on their way, Vanea approaches her brother Egil; the immense statue of Lady Meyneth looms over her Shrine as the siblings meet in the Mechonis capital.] Egil Vanea... Where have you been? Vanea Egil, why do you go so far to destroy the Bionis? We survived that battle. We should have created a new world in which we could live in peace. And we still can... Egil The rage of those who were annihilated by the Monado will never dissipate. Vanea Think not about avenging the dead. Think of the living. Please, Egil! I don't want to lose you. Are you so resigned to giving your life for this? Egil Life or death, I care for neither of these. The agonised cries of our brethren resound within my ears. Until they are silenced, I am deaf to all else. Vanea Egil... [Vanea turns just as Shulk and his companions enter.] Egil So you have finally arrived. Heir to the Monado. [The group stand before Egil.] Shulk You are Egil, leader of Mechonis. Egil That I am. Of course. You have never seen me outside of my Face - Yaldabaoth. But even if I am without it, you will never defeat me. Shulk Wait. I didn't come to fight you. Egil Cowardice? Then relinquish the Monado and kneel before me. Shulk I didn't come to surrender to you either. I just want to know something. Egil You have my undivided attention. Ask your question. Shulk I've seen the legends of the Machina right here in the capital. I think I understand why you want to fight the Bionis. But why send the Mechon to attack the people of Bionis? Egil Hahaha! Shulk I don't see the joke! We share the same world! The Homs, Nopon and High Entia live in harmony, so why not the Machina too? Egil Tell me, boy. Are you familiar with the concept of starvation tactics? Shulk Of course. [Reyn crosses his arms in confusion, so Dunban explains for him.] Dunban A military strategy in which you cut the supply lines and starve out the enemy. Egil So then you understand that that is the best method by which to ensure victory. I have no resentment or hatred for the peoples of Bionis. I am simply depleting the Bionis' energy. Striking back at the titan that robbed my people of their lives. Shulk I don't understand. Egil Perhaps you need me to put things more simply. All life on Bionis exists purely to feed its master! Shulk What?! Egil Ether, the base element of all things that exist in this world. My body, your bodies... You are aware that ether is the foundation of them all? Shulk Yes. Egil Ether is power. You are the source of that power. All life that is born from the Bionis dies, and is returned to the Bionis. Unlike the Mechonis, the Bionis feeds on ether provided by those who return to it. Upon the moment of its eventual awakening, it will require an incredible number of lives. Fiora But that means... Reyn What're ya talkin' about?! Are ya sayin' we're just food?! Egil It was the Bionis that created you for such a purpose. Not I. Shulk So you attacked Bionis to reduce the Bionis' power supply? Egil Correct! You are nothing more than bugs to be devoured by my sworn adversary. Do not speak to me of your foolish dreams of unity. Shulk Foolish? We only grieve for those we've lost, as you do! Machina or Homs we've suffered the same! Don't tell me it's different! Egil Indeed. We have both suffered. Shulk So then... [But Egil readies himself for battle.] Egil You doubt my convictions, my reasons. In order to avenge my people, I have risked everything. Can you say the same? Shulk Yes, we can. To get this far... we've fought long and hard. Egil And yet, you do not fight me. Your words are useless. It is only strength that can prevail! Reyn Shulk... This whole thing stinks, but he's got a point! [Reyn brings out his weapon.] Shulk Agreed. [The others begin to draw their weapons as well; Shulk activates the Monado.] Shulk Egil, leader of Mechonis! The lives of the Machina and the lives of all that lives on Bionis are one and the same. We won't stop. Not until you realise that! [The party stand united against Egil and attempt to persuade him by force.] [At the end of the battle, Shulk's blade is embedded in Egil's shoulder.] Egil How could this happen even with the Apocrypha? Shulk You know, Egil. You know the reason. [Egil looks out at the rest of Shulk's party, who are still battle ready.] Egil The power of the will to protect your own? Is that what you refer to? [Egil looks to his own sister.] Egil And what of you, Vanea? You would side with those of Bionis and attack me? You have forfeited your right to exist! Vanea Perhaps. If that is to be my fate, I gladly accept, brother. As would any of the villagers. Egil So the few remaining members of my people have now betrayed me. Interesting. Vanea You're wrong! The villagers and I... We just wanted all this fighting to stop! Egil... All we wanted was to live with you in peace. Nothing more than that! Egil Nonsense... [Egil grabs Shulk's face with one hand.] Egil There will never be peace until the Bionis is destroyed! [Egil lifts Shulk up off the ground.] Vanea Brother! [Egil laughs as he uses his other hand to grab the Monado and remove it from his shoulder.] Egil Your blade... It did not cut deep enough. [Egil throws Shulk to the ground, and Fiora immediately runs over to him. At the same time, Egil's massive gold Mechon, Yaldabaoth, rises towards the Meyneth Shrine.] Shulk The golden Mechon! [Yaldabaoth lands behind its master.] Egil Permit me to apologise for calling you bugs just now. You proved to be a worthy adversary after all, [Egil leaps into Yaldabaoth.] Egil Shulk! [The golden Mechon closes up around Egil as he readies for the rematch.] [This time, Egil gets the better of the heroes, as the party lie defeated at Yaldabaoth's feet.] Egil Prepare to die. [Egil raises Yaldabaoth's right hand, which charges up an enormous ball of blinding light.] Egil Shulk... No... Zanza! [Shulk struggles to lift up his head from where he lies.] Shulk Zanza? [Fiora, alone on her feet, approaches Egil.] Fiora I won't let you kill Shulk! [Fiora activates Meyneth's power as rays of red light emanate from her body and encircle Egil and Yaldabaoth.] Egil You... That light... So you have returned... Our grievances have come and gone, but you are willing to lay down your life to prevent me from achieving my dream? You were the one who said we would live together! Lady Meyneth! Fiora [and Meyneth] Yes... Meyneth, the villagers, everyone loved you. That is why they wished to live alongside you. It's all so clear now. To Meyneth and to me. Egil I waited... until the day when you would awaken once more and create a world full of light... But you are nothing more than a traitor! To me, to all those who worshipped you and to our fallen brethren! [The energy in Yaldabaoth's palm begins to brighten in intensity.] Fiora [and Meyneth] Please, you have to listen to me! Egil! [Egil turns his back on Meyneth.] Egil I will not listen... Your words mean nothing. You have sided with my sworn enemy! [Egil begins the motions of his attack.] Egil And gods can never exist alongside mortals! Meyneth! [Egil raises Yaldabaoth's hand upwards.] Fiora [and Meyneth] Egil! [Egil slams Yaldabaoth's hand on the ground, unleashing a light so bright it covers all Agniratha; Shulk screams. But all seems normal after the light dissipates - at first. Egil, still piloting Yaldabaoth, disappears through the portal at the back of the Meyneth Shrine. From there, he arrives in the Mechonis Core. He sets up Yaldabaoth in a huge titan-like contraption inside the core.] Egil Mechonis, it is I, Egil! I, your devoted servant, offer my body and mind, to replace Meyneth as your new soul! [Gears whir as various components attach themselves to Yaldabaoth.] Egil Take my spirit and be reawakened, Mechonis! [Once the great mechanism is ready, Egil bellows a war cry as Yaldabaoth closes up around him again. Back in Agniratha, Shulk slowly gets to his feet and looks around the city.] Shulk We have to run, get out of here! The whole city's gonna come down! [As if on cue, all the buildings and machinery in the capital start sparking. The party dash down the ramp away from the Meyneth Shrine.] Reyn Shulk! Run where?! Shulk We have to get out of the city! Get as far away as we can! [The party run into the Shrine Transporter, and from there they arrive at the Worship Terrace, where they had left Gadolt. Sharla breaks off from the group.] Sharla Gadolt! Where are you?! Gadolt! [Reyn comes back for her.] Reyn Sharla! What're you doing?! Sharla He's gone! He's not here anymore! Reyn There's no time! We have to get ourselves out! Sharla No! I have to find him! Gadolt! [Reyn grabs hold of Sharla, and she tries to fight him off.] Reyn Pull yourself together! Remember, Sharla, we've got a job to do! What's gonna happen if the Mechonis starts moving? Sharla But! Reyn What's gonna happen to Juju and Otharon?! Gadolt's a Homs soldier! He wouldn't have hung around here to die. He would've got out. Sharla All right... Reyn Right! Now come on! [Reyn and Sharla catch up to the rest of the party as they retreat, but the Central Tower goes critical. The white explosion blooms out across all of Agniratha, catching up to the fleeing group.] Reyn Shulk! [But just as the deadly light is about to consume them all, they suddenly find Gadolt, inside Jade Face, between them and the explosive force behind, keeping it at bay from the group.] Sharla Gadolt! Gadolt I'm glad...I'm on time. Reyn I-it's you... Sharla Gadolt! [Momentary flashback to Sharla handing Gadolt's Rifle to him in Colony 6.] Gadolt I've fulfilled... my promise... [The explosive light begins to consume Gadolt's Mechon.] Gadolt Live... Sharla... [Sharla attempts to run towards him in desperation, but Reyn pulls her back. The screen fades to white.] [Outside, the light from the blast that has consumed Agniratha shoots forth in a beam from the mouth of the Mechonis, which slams into the Bionis, then dissipates. Kallian and those with him react in shock.] Kallian A sign? [Flashback to Alvis' last words before leaving Kallian.] Alvis Yes. If a catastrophe were imminent, it would naturally be preceded by a sign. [In the present, Kallian realises the significance of what is happening.] Kallian It can't be! [Kallian turns to the rest of the allied force.] Kallian Convey these orders to all troops! Pull the front line back to the Bionis' arm! All units, withdraw from the front at once! [The two Imperial Guards with Kallian look at each other in confusion.] Imperial Guard Sir, are you sure? Imperial Guard Victory is in our hands, Your Highness. We must strike the final blow! Kallian Do you not realise where we are?! Imperial Guard Sir? Kallian Listen to me. We are on the sword of the Mechonis! [The Pterix begin to fly about in a panic as the Nopon they are transporting cry out in fear.] Dunga [O.C.] Calm down! Calm down! [On the ground, the Homs soldiers lose their footing as the ground begins to shift underneath them.] Defence Force Soldier It's moving! [The Havres continue their flight.] Kallian Are we too late?! Melia, be safe! [Kallian calls out to his allies.] Kallian All units, retreat! Immediately! The Mechonis is about to awaken! [As the Havres begin to turn around, Dickson shoves a Mechon Face off his Havres with his Sabre.] Dickson Dammit. I was counting on you, runt. [The Face falls as Dickson soars away. Meanwhile, Shulk and his companions find themselves suspended in mid-air inside a sphere of red light.] Sharla What's happening? Reyn It's like we're floating in mid-air! [Shulk holds on to Fiora, and it becomes apparent that it is Lady Meyneth's power within Fiora keeping the group afloat.] Shulk Fiora... Are you doing this? Vanea Lady Meyneth. You have awakened once more. [Vanea kneels before Fiora/Meyneth inside the sphere.] Shulk This light... Was it you who saved us when we fell from the fortress? [Fiora/Meyneth floats away towards Vanea, then turns and faces Shulk.] Shulk Meyneth? Where's Fiora? Fiora [as herself] It's OK. I'm here too. Fiora [as Meyneth] After all that occurred at the fortress, my soul was exhausted. [She looks over at Sharla.] Fiora [as Meyneth] But I was revived by the cry of a young Homs. By his wish to protect you all. Sharla Gadolt... Fiora [as Meyneth] If he had not acted as a shield, I would have been unable to save you. I am sorry. Reyn Gadolt saved us. Now he's... [Shulk looks up.] Shulk The Mechonis! Where's Egil?! [The Mechonis moves, and the whole world seems to shake. Egil speaks from within the Mechonis, his voice amplified to those outside.] Egil [V.O.] Shulk! Do you hear it? The awakening of the Mechonis! This is my pain. The pain of my people echoing through the millennia. [A new arm of the Mechonis, one not already holding the sword, reaches out, disintegrating Havres as it moves through them.] Defence Force Soldier The Mechonis' arm! [The Mechonis then grabs its sword, and soldiers and Mechon alike in that part of Sword Valley are crushed. Other Homs soldiers on the floor of the valley attempt to flee, but the previously level ground slopes beneath them, and mobile artilleries tumble forward after them.] Egil [V.O.] Fall to your deaths! Worthless insects! [There is an explosion on the edge of Sword Valley as the Mechonis takes hold of its sword.] Shulk Stop this! Kallian and the others are still on the sword! Our friends are going to die! Stop! [Soldiers and vehicles continue to tumble down the valley as the sword is extracted where it had been imbedded in the Bionis' side. Homs soldiers are now shown in freefall, screaming as they plummet.] Reyn I'll kill him! That murdering monster is gonna pay! [Sharla gasps.] Sharla Otharon! [The Homs and others falling from the sword appear tiny as insects, filling the sky as they slowly fall. Back with Shulk's party, Fiora is struggling to keep Meyneth's power going.] Shulk Fiora? Fiora Sorry. I can't do it. [The red light fades, and she drops.] Shulk Fiora! [The sphere shatters, and all eight party members fall, screaming as they go. Junks swoops in and catches them; the group lands hard on the deck.] Reyn That hurts! Shulk Where are we? [Miqol's laughter can be heard.] Miqol That was a close one, but we made it! [The chief laughs again as Alvis appears from behind Miqol's massive seat.] Shulk Alvis. Alvis You are aboard Junks, the Machina ship. Linada It was he who informed us that you were in danger. [The party slowly get to their feet.] Linada I am glad we found you in time. Shulk Thank you. [A Havres flies overhead, and Dickson leaps from it onto the Junks Deck, knocking down Reyn and hugging Shulk and Fiora in headlocks with either arm after he lands.] Dickson Hey! What a stroke of luck! You're still alive! Dunban Dickson! [With a full complement of passengers, Junks flies off to safety.] [Later, once docked back at Hidden Machina Village, Shulk's party meet with Miqol and the others inside Junks.] Linada So you were unable to stop Egil. [Miqol sighs.] Vanea Sorry, Father. I have failed you. Linada Vanea, there's no need to apologise. Miqol ... Dickson So what do we do now? At this rate, that blasted Egil's gonna destroy Bionis. Shulk Alvis, what happened to the allied force? Alvis I informed His Highness of the possibility that the Mechonis would awaken. His Highness is wise. He will have acted to minimise casualties. Shulk That's good. Vanea Brother... Fiora [as Meyneth] There is still time. Shulk Fiora? No, you're...? [Dickson and Alvis take a closer look at Fiora, as her eyes glow Mechon red.] Alvis [inwardly] So it is her... Fiora [as Meyneth] The Mechonis and I exist as one. Egil is using ether energy absorbed from the Bionis to force it to move. There is still time before the Mechonis fully adapts to the ether. Vanea Egil is at the core of the Mechonis. He will be controlling the Mechonis from there. Only by destroying the core will you be able to stop the Mechonis. Dunban But how are we to get there? The Mechonis capital is destroyed. Vanea Father, how much remaining energy does Junks have? Miqol Don't worry. I made sure to fill her up. [Miqol chuckles. Vanea turns back to the others.] Vanea On the back of the Mechonis is a huge cooling duct. We should be small enough to enter the control core section via the duct's heat transfer conduits. Junks can take us as far as the duct. Dunban You have our gratitude. We must go there at once. Reyn Then let's get a move on. This one's for Gadolt. Dunban Hear, hear. Sharla Too right! Gadolt's wishes live on through me. We will fight to the end. [As the party continue to discuss their plans, Dickson examines the component on Fiora's chest as it emanates a faint red light.] Dickson [inwardly] So that's where you've been hiding. Then I guess it's almost time to finish this. [Alvis looks meaningfully at Dickson.] [Later, Vanea meets the party outside on the Junks Deck.] Vanea When you are ready to depart for the Mechonis, let my father know. I will prepare the vessel. Shulk Understood. Reyn Oi! Look at that! What the?! [High above them, inert for so long, the Mechonis moves about. The creaking and clanking of its movements can be heard all the way in the village.] Vanea There is little time left. We must stop Egil this time. It is in your hands, Shulk. Shulk I know. [Later, Shulk and the party speak with Miqol in Junks to let him know they're ready to go to the Mechonis Core.] [Meanwhile, the Mechonis grips its sword with both hands; the Havres hover in front of the Bionis, looking helpless.] Kallian Do my eyes deceive me? The Mechonis is moving. Vangarre [O.C.] Oi! You! [Colonel Vangarre holds on to a Defence Force Soldier who is himself hanging from a Pterix's talons.] Vangarre I'm warning you! You'd better not drop me! Let me go and you'll be doing sit-ups for the rest of your life! Defence Force Soldier Yes, Colonel! [Kallian continues to survey the scene in front of him, his face taut.] [Below, Junks takes off from Hidden Village. Flying under the sword, the ship heads towards the Mechonis. En route, Vanea finds Fiora on the deck.] Fiora Vanea? Vanea I am sorry. For Lady Meyneth's will to be realised, I had no choice but to use your body. Even so... Fiora Actually, I'm grateful. Thanks to this body, I got to see Shulk and the others again. Vanea Where is Lady Meyneth now? Fiora Shall I call her? She is usually asleep. Maybe she just doesn't want to disturb me. It's an unusual feeling... Two hearts in one body. It's not every day you get to experience something like this. Vanea I see. That is a great relief. Fiora It's as if I can see into her heart. We each know what the other's thinking. But it's strange. It feels like there's a part of my heart that's hidden. It's the part that holds Meyneth's feelings, and I can't see them. Maybe it's only natural. Everyone has one or two secrets, right? But I know how much she cares about this world. That's why I'm happy to let her use my body. Vanea Fiora. I think Lady Meyneth is glad that she met you. Fiora Yeah, I know. [Eventually, Junks' journey is contested. As it approaches Mechonis, Egil's Mechon forces open fire on Junks. The Machina ship dodges the laser blasts, weaving deftly around the various appendages on the titan's back. Though the ship does take some hits, it continues on. The group meet on the bridge.] Alvis Shulk, good news from His Highness. The allied force retreated in time. Casualties were kept to a minimum. Shulk Glad to hear it. Sharla That's great news. Alvis All areas are being prepared for evacuation. We can only hope they make it. Reyn We won't let 'em down. This is one fight we can't afford to lose. Riki Heropon Riki all set! Riki bounce some heads! Dickson We'll go with you. Can't beat strength in numbers. Shulk Really? Reyn You're a tough old timer. Dunban What's this? The old fossil wants to tag along? As long as you don't slow us down. Dickson Let's see who makes it through the battle! [Outside meanwhile, Junks continues to dodge laser fire. As it approaches the Mechonis' back, a cannon under the ship's bow charges up energy. Junks then blasts its way inside the Mechonis, weaving through girders and other bits of machinery as it soars down the cooling duct. Blasting through Mechon security, Junks evades its pursuers, which destroy themselves trying to navigate the treacherous duct in pursuit. Junks finally docks at the Ventilation Conduit in the Central Factory.] Dunban We're here. Everyone ready?! Melia Ready. Reyn Anytime! Riki Leave it to Heropon Riki! [Shulk breathes in sharply.] Reyn Hey, Shulk. What is it this time? Stop worrying and come on. Shulk The Monado isn't at full strength. I don't know if it can beat Egil. Reyn You talkin' about that Apocry-whatchamacallit thing? Don't worry! He's no match for all of us together! Dunban At least the previous encounter allowed us to gauge how he fights. We won't make the same mistakes again! Vanea The core is directly linked to the Apocrypha Generator. Destroy the generator and the Apocrypha field will deactivate, allowing Shulk's Monado to function properly again. Reyn Now ya tell us! I wish you'd said something earlier. [Reyn turns to Shulk.] Reyn Shulk! Did ya hear that?! Looks like you'll get your wish! Shulk Something's not right. Reyn What? Shulk Egil... He called me Zanza. The same Zanza who devastated Mechonis. What did he mean? Reyn He was just trying to get to you. Shulk I told you before, right? I haven't had any visions lately. Reyn Yeah? Shulk But I still know...if I concentrate... I feel like something will happen, and it does... Reyn Are you saying you don't need a vision to know what comes next? Pull the other one. Shulk Reyn, you're going to scratch your head with your right hand. [Reyn is doing so exactly when Shulk speaks.] Sharla Huh?! Reyn What are you on about, Shulk? Stop playing around. [As Shulk stands with his eyes closed, Reyn instinctively goes to scratch his head with his right hand and then puts it back down.] Reyn Ohh... But... How did you do that? Shulk I can't work it out. Ever since we came to Mechonis, my abilities have been changing. Why would that happen? [Fiora gasps.] Shulk If it's true that Zanza used the Monado to lay waste to Mechonis, then is it right for me to use it? Is what I'm trying to do really the right thing? Fiora Shulk... [He hangs his head.] [Soon, Shulk and Fiora are the first to exit Junks. All of a sudden, Shulk collapses, crying out in pain on the deck. The Monado clatters to the deck as Fiora runs up to him.] Fiora Shulk! [But Shulk is in agony as the others come outside.] Melia What's wrong?! [Shulk's companions run towards him.] Dunban No! No! [Momentary flashback to Dunban faltering from bearing the Monado during the Mechon raid on Colony 9.] Dunban It's happening to him too. Shulk! Hold on! [Shulk's screams die down, but he is still gasping. The entire group huddle over him.] Dunban You all right? Shulk Yeah. It's OK. I'm fine now. Reyn Man... Dunban Your control of the Monado has always been flawless. It never crossed my mind that this would happen to you too. Are you sure you're OK? Melia Perhaps you are suffering this much because you put all your energy into fighting the effect of the Apocrypha. Reyn Ain't you learnt yet, Shulk? How many times do I have to tell ya? If something's up, you've got to spit it out, man! I ain't just talking about visions. I mean whatever's on your mind. All right? [Shulk nods, with difficulty.] Shulk Sorry, Reyn. Reyn Don't go apologising. It's my fault for not noticing. Let's get one thing straight. I've still got your back. [Reyn slaps Shulk's back, hard enough to elicit a grunt from the latter.] Shulk Thanks. [Then suddenly...] Shulk No. [Fiora gasps in confusion. Flashback to Yaldabaoth at the Meyneth Shrine.] Egil Prepare to die. Shulk. No, Zanza! [Back in the present, Shulk examines his shaking hand.] Shulk This wasn't caused by the Apocrypha. It's a completely different kind of power. Fiora Shulk! Shulk What's happening to me? [The party deliberate on the Junks Deck about how to proceed.] Reyn I know I should be glad we made it this far, but if we don't find the Apocrypha Generator soon... Sharla Exactly. The fight against Egil's not going to be easy with the Monado in its current state. And we don't know what kind of toll it'll take on Shulk's body. We have to destroy that generator. [Shulk looks up the Ventilation Conduit.] Shulk It's up ahead. Reyn Shulk? Shulk There's a strong energy coming from up ahead. That has to be it. Reyn Really? Shulk Yes. Reyn Then this is it! Egil's gonna be scrap metal when I'm through with him! [The party set off. By the time they reach the Bridge to Apocrypha, Shulk, with the Monado in hand again, is deep in thought.] Shulk [V.O.] It's just as I thought. The Monado feels the same as it did before the Apocrypha took effect. No, it feels even more powerful. [Flashback to the battle between the Bionis and the Mechonis.] Shulk [V.O.] The Bionis' Monado. And this Monado. [Back to the present.] Shulk [V.O.] They have to be connected somehow. [Flashback to the dream Shulk had as a child in Ose Tower.] ??? Because you aren't here. Not anymore. [Back to the present.] Shulk [V.O.] Why am I remembering that dream? Why now? Without the power, I can't stop Egil. I have to concentrate. All I have to think about is how to stop the Mechonis. If the Monado does bring about the end, then I know what to do. [Shulk notices Fiora watching him.] Shulk Fiora! Fiora Shulk, what were you thinking about? [Shulk stammers for a bit.] Shulk Nothing. Fiora So. It's like that is it? Shulk Really, it's nothing. Fiora Listen, Shulk. If it's too hard for you handle on your own, talk to me! Shulk Fiora... Fiora You can tell any of the others as well. [The view pans out to the rest of the party, walking along past Fiora towards the Apocrypha Generator.] Fiora We're all here for you. Don't forget that. Shulk You're right. You're here for me. Fiora Of course! And don't overdo it, OK? We all saw what happened. [Shulk raises his arm to look at the Monado.] Fiora Is your arm OK? Shulk Yeah, it's not bad. I'll live. [Reyn calls to them from down the bridge, as the others turn to look back.] Reyn Oi, you two! Is something up? Fiora No, it's nothing. [Fiora starts to go, then turns back to Shulk.] Fiora Come on. [Shulk nods, takes Fiora's hand, and together they catch up to the rest of the group, passing Melia when she pauses for Shulk.] Melia Shulk... You can... [But they are already past; Melia sighs. As the party approach the generator, they feel the floor shake beneath them.] Dunban Wait. It's moving! Vanea No! We're too late! Shulk You mean... Vanea The Mechonis' functions have been restored! Reyn No, it can't be! [The view shifts to the Mechonis exterior.] Egil [V.O.] Yes. You puny pests are too late. [The Mechonis swings it sword towards the Bionis' arm. At Valak Mountain, the Defence Force Soldiers there are in full retreat.] Defence Force Soldier Fall back! Everyone fall back! [But the sword, almost as wide as a mountain itself, bears down on the snowy mountainside, scattering soldiers in its wake. The view zooms out to show the sword cutting into the Bionis' arm before returning to the party inside the Central Factory.] Dickson He's gone and done it. [Shulk makes a questioning noise.] Dickson The Mechonis has struck. Not good. I think it must've hit somewhere on Bionis. Sharla No... Dunban Move out! Don't forget we've still got a job to do! Shulk Right! [As the party run towards the Apocrypha Generator, a red light appears.] Shulk What?! [The Apocrypha Generator itself has ambushed Shulk and the others.] [But they destroy the Apocrypha Generator, and the mechanism shuts down.] Riki Nyapakapow! Reyn Chew on that, Apocawhatever! We did it, Shulk! [After no reply, Reyn turns around.] Reyn Shulk? [Reyn comes over to him.] Reyn Oi! [The Monado, already still active, lengthens its blade, and a Cyclone whirls from its light.] Reyn Whoa! Dunban What's happened to the Monado? Sharla It must've changed just as the generator was destroyed. It's amazing. [Shulk deactivates the weapon and straps it across his back.] Reyn Now we're talking! Next up - Egil! Melia [to Shulk] Can you go on? Shulk Me? I'm all right. [Shulk turns to the group at large.] Shulk Come on. We have to stop Egil. [The party hurry off; Dickson and Alvis linger behind.] Dickson Back on track, just like I said. The kid'll come through. Alvis Naturally. Everything is falling into place. Dickson You can say that again. [Dickson follows after the others, leaving Alvis alone.] Alvis But only as long as we remain within the margins of fate. I know not how things will proceed from this point. [Soon, the party use the transporter in the Apocrypha Generator room to reach the Mechonis Core where Egil is waiting.] Egil So, you worms have finally arrived. Shulk Egil! Stop the Mechonis! There has to be a way for us to live in peace! There's no reason for us to fight! You must stop this now! Egil My reasons are clear. And truer than yours. [The walls throughout the core change to a transparent screen. Through this screen, Bionis becomes visible, directly across from Mechonis.] Reyn What's that?! Vanea Look! It's Bionis! Egil May the roar of the Mechonis be the wrath of my people! [Yaldabaoth lights up, then thrusts forward with its sword, forcing the party to duck. Outside, the sword of the Mechonis rams into the Bionis' shoulder. As the sword within the core is withdrawn, so is the Mechonis' titan sword.] Egil How many? [Shulk makes a sound of confusion.] Egil How many do you think died in that attack? Hundreds? Maybe thousands? Reyn Egil! You'll regret this! [Vanea runs up.] Vanea Brother, stop this! You'll destroy the Bionis! Let us put an end to our torment! Egil It ends when I say it ends! I will end our curse by destroying the world! Vanea You must realise that is not Lady Meyneth's wish. That's why she left us her legacy - our whole world! [Egil slams his sword into the ground, causing Shulk and Reyn to have to leap out of its way. He then aims the sword at Fiora.] Egil Pure nonsense! That thing lurking within the Homs girl is no longer our god! This world no longer has a need for gods! Shulk Egil! [Shulk activates the Monado.] Shulk Stop this! Egil Face me, Shulk! Successor of Zanza! I'll crush the Bionis and spread its ashes across the world! [Egil swings his sword in a wide arc.] Egil Then I'll turn the Monado into dust. [Yaldabaoth lights up again to charge up another attack.] Egil Only then will there be peace! [Egil, within Yaldabaoth, engages Shulk's party one last time. At one point in the ensuing battle, Shulk sees a vision of Yaldabaoth's Bionis Slash attack. The party destroy three Energy Devices around Yaldabaoth and stop the destruction of Bionis.] [At the battle's conclusion, Shulk is dodging blasts of light from Yaldabaoth. Egil swings his sword, and Shulk intercepts it with the Monado, at first holding the great mechanical sword at bay, then knocking it cleanly away.] Dunban Incredible! Reyn Whoa! [Egil rears back for another slash, but Shulk leaps over the blade and shouts a battle cry as he raises the Monado overhead and soars towards Yaldabaoth.] Fiora Shulk! Don't do it! [Shulk lands and roars as he decapitates Yaldabaoth, sending the head of the Mechon Face plummeting downwards and exposing Egil himself to view.] Egil How could this happen?! [Shulk stands over Egil, the Monado held high overhead and ready to deliver the killing blow.] Zanza [V.O.] Do it! Kill him! Kill him! Shulk That voice. Who is that? Zanza [V.O.] Strike him down! Shulk I will. I'll kill him. A thousand times. Zanza [V.O.] Yes! Finish him! End it! It is what you want! Shulk Yes. I want to. I'll kill him. For Fiora. For the Emperor. For my home! Alvis [V.O.] You must find your Monado. Are you ready? [Flashback to Otharon in the Central Pit.] Otharon You feeling hungry, eh? Chew on this, scrap-for-brains! [Flashback to Mumkhar at Valak Mountain.] Mumkhar Would you even kill a Homs to beat us? [A series of flashbacks come to Shulk, almost simultaneously - Miqol, Gadolt, Sharla, Fiora, Vanea, Dunban.] - I want you to kill Egil. - Egil once wished only - to break the circle of suffering. - I swear I won't stop - He believed - until I've scrapped - that if blood is spilt now, - each and every one of you! - a new world will be born. - Meyneth, the villagers, everyone loved you. [Fiora's voice begins to prevail over the rest.] Fiora That is why they wished to live alongside you. It's all so clear now. To Meyneth, and to me! [Back in the present, Shulk gasps at what he's nearly done.] Shulk No! This isn't what I want! [Shulk brings his sword down on Egil nevertheless.] Fiora Shulk! No! Vanea Brother! [But Shulk's blade stops mere inches from Egil's head. Shulk then deactivates the Monado and sits down on the Mechon's frame next to Egil, with his back to the Mechonis leader.] Egil Why didn't you do it? Killing me would have saved your world. Shulk I've forgotten all about that. Egil Forgotten about it? Shulk I realised that we both share the same pain. Egil, I don't have any reason to kill you. Egil Even if you do not, I still do! Shulk I know. But I won't do it. Egil If you do not kill me now, my blade will annihilate every last one of your people. Even then?! Shulk I can't kill you, but I can stop your blade. And I'll do it. Over and over again, until... we understand each other. OK? Egil You have used the Monado well. But do you honestly believe you are its master? [There is a lengthy silence in the Mechonis Core. From the floor, the party look on.] Egil Mechonis and Bionis once lived in harmony. They coexisted in peace. Without hatred or strife. [Flashback to an ancient time. Egil stands with his Giant friend before the Giant became Zanza. Together, the two look out at the head of the Bionis from the vantage point of the Bionis' Shoulder.] ??? Egil, why do you think we were born? Egil Ah, philosophy! Alas, I am not very good at answering such questions. ??? Have you never thought about it? Never contemplated what lies beyond this world? Egil Beyond this world? [Egil catches his breath.] Egil Lady Meyneth once said that aside from the Bionis and the Mechonis, this world is filled with nothing but boundless ocean. ??? But what lies beyond that? We are still young, and unable to leave the Bionis or the Mechonis. Say goodbye to our creators, our world. But one day our descendants will. They will leave this place and depart for new worlds. Worlds we have never imagined. By strength of their will alone. Egil Leave this place? That is something I have never considered. However, it would be a truly amazing sight. ??? Egil. I wish to see that the people of Bionis and the people of Mechonis live in peace and harmony and take care of one another. I wish this for the future of our descendants. Egil Yes. I, too, desire this, Arglas. [Arglas looks down on the younger Egil as the current Egil narrates.] Egil Everybody shared the belief that the prosperity of our two worlds would continue for all eternity. [The view focuses in on the head of the Bionis.] Egil It would have done, were it not for the Monado. [The view shifts to the Monado, embedded in the ground in the midst of a violent thunderstorm.] Egil The Monado refused to permit the existence of the Mechonis. Or rather, the existence of anything but itself. [Arglas steps forward and pulls the Monado from its resting place. Suddenly, a light bursts forth, enveloping the Giant in its power.] Egil And one day, it took control of my friend Arglas, and he became Zanza. [The light ceases, and Arglas turned Zanza raises his head, his face no longer kindly. The view shifts to the Bionis in motion, followed by the familiar duel against the Mechonis.] Egil It was Arglas, possessed by Zanza, who directed his sword at Mechonis. [Back to the present.] Shulk I don't understand. Does being controlled by the Monado mean you will eventually become Zanza? Egil The Monado is Zanza. Zanza is the Monado. The two are one and the same. In order to perpetuate the existence of his soul, Zanza inhabits beings of Bionis. But you appear to be different. Shulk What do you mean? Egil I can see it. How well you retained a sense of self. Perhaps you can break the curse of Zanza. [Egil looks down.] Egil And was that not precisely our wish? Lady Meyneth? [Fiora beams at Egil.] Shulk I don't know much about any curse. [Shulk extends a hand.] Shulk For now, all I can do is this, Egil. We can live in peace again. Egil Again? I see. Yes, you're right. [Just as Egil rises to take Shulk's proffered hand, the view shifts to a weapon that then fires, shooting Shulk in the back. In slow motion, everyone looks on in alarm; Fiora gasps.] Dunban No! Fiora Shulk! [Shulk staggers backwards and turns to find the culprit. The rest of the party also turn around to see their traitor; Riki yelps in dismay. Dickson holds his Sabre, still aimed at Shulk. His form is framed by the Bionis looming in the background behind the transparent screen.] Dunban Dickson?! Dickson You shouldn't have done that, little brat. [Dickson keeps his weapon raised.] Fiora Shulk! [Shulk falls off the Mechon Face unit, but Egil catches him in Yaldabaoth's hand. Fiora, Sharla, Melia and Vanea rush to him. Reyn and Dunban stay back to face Dickson.] Dunban Dickson! Why?! Reyn Oi, old man! Are you completely out of your mind?! [Dickson finally lowers his Sabre and runs a hand wearily across his head.] Dickson Don't you kids ever shut up? I'm just doing my job. As always. [Dickson walks forward.] Dickson [to Egil] Right? [The women are treating Shulk. Sharla has her hands on Shulk's chest, and Fiora turns back to Dickson.] Fiora Who are you? [Above them, Egil has a sudden realisation.] Egil It's you! [Flashback to Arglas as Zanza holding the Monado. Next to him is a somewhat smaller Giant, who has Dickson's facial features.] Dickson Yes. Now you remember. [Back to the present.] Dickson It's been a long time, hasn't it, Egil? Too long. Egil Zanza's disciple. Dunban Zanza's disciple?! Egil, what do you mean?! Dickson, what are you?! Dickson I don't have to explain anything. As they say, seeing is believing. [Nearby, Shulk goes into convulsions as the women around him are increasingly unable to help him.] Dickson Now, witness it with your own eyes. The moment of Lord Zanza's return! [Shulk levitates off the ground as a bright light emanates from his body.] Fiora Shulk! [Light continues to burst forth from Shulk's prone form.] Fiora [as Meyneth] Get away from him! Fiora [as herself] No! [The explosive light reaches a crescendo, knocking Fiora and the others back.] Egil Zanza! I won't let you do this! [Egil raises Yaldabaoth's hand, which charges up an energy attack, and then fires it towards Shulk. But Shulk's hand catches and absorbs the light energy, which is then fired back at Egil, creating a big explosion in his Mechon body and sending the machine faltering backwards.] Vanea Brother! [Smoke rises from a darkened Yaldabaoth as a being of pure light emerges from Shulk's body. Shulk, lifeless, collapses back onto the ground once the being has fully emerged, holding the Monado.] Reyn Shulk! Wait, who's this guy? Egil Zanza. [The soul of Zanza, an angelic being who bears an uncanny resemblance to Shulk, hovers high overhead and addresses the onlookers.] Zanza Do not be surprised. Everything in this world is dictated by the passage of fate. As all that exists is interconnected, time can flow only towards the inevitable. That is the vision of which I, the Monado, am the origin. That which will be, will be. [Wings of pure light emerge from Zanza's shoulders, as well as what appears to be a halo above his head.] Zanza This was all predestined. Ever since I came to reside within Shulk. Sharla What do you mean? Fiora [as Meyneth] Zanza grew tired from our battle, and then the High Entia ancestors trapped him. His flesh was sealed away on Prison Island. His soul, and hence the Monado, was confined to Ose Tower. Dunban In those ruins?! But what does this have to do with Shulk? Dickson Did you forget? Who discovered those ruins? [Dickson takes a puff on his cigar.] Dickson Who happened to be there? Who was the 'survivor' we found? And who brought back that survivor? Dunban What are you saying?! You planned all this when you found Shulk? Dickson Jackpot. It was all for this day. In fact, there never was anyone called Shulk to begin with! Dunban What?! Zanza My soul existed inside the Monado. It was fated that I be released. It was shown to me in a vision. At last the time finally came. And then... Dickson The people who found the Monado, and freed it, awoke Zanza. He sucked the lives from them so he could live. Shulk was among them. Reyn Shulk was already dead?! That's impossible! We grew up together! Zanza You grew up with an empty shell. He appeared to live because I became his life force. That is until he had matured as my new vessel and become worthy of wielding the Monado, allowing me to truly awaken and finally return. Dickson Lord Zanza is the soul of the Bionis, but he still needs a living body. Just like Meyneth over there. Call that corpse a friend? Don't make me laugh! Melia But why use Shulk? What was it that made you choose Shulk as your vessel? Zanza There was no particular reason. Shulk merely happened to be there at the time. Dickson There you have it. Anybody would've done. As long as they could swing a sword around, at least. Dunban So then... Shulk's ability to use the Monado... Sharla And those visions that he used to save us! [Dickson drops his cigar next to Shulk's unmoving form.] Dickson All because of Lord Zanza. Lord Zanza can see the passage of fate. He simply led you to the inevitable. The destruction of Colony 9, the death of that pompous old High Entia fool, and that grunt Gadolt's miserable demise. All of it! [Melia, Sharla and Reyn react to these words.] Melia You evil...! [Melia attacks Dickson with her staff, but he uses his Sabre to knock her back to the ground. He presses the nozzle of his weapon to her cheek.] Dickson There's more. We haven't even got to the best part! Dunban What are you gonna do, Dickson?! Dickson Don't you get it? You're just in the way. The lot of you. This world was created by Lord Zanza. By the very Bionis itself. Then you things think you can just spring up all over the place. Zanza All life that is born from me must be returned to me eventually to complete the cycle. For me to continue my existence as before, then all must be restored to its former order. [Zanza raises the Monado.] Dickson In other words, the destruction and recreation of the world. Nothing more to it. Zanza First we must eliminate my greatest obstacle. You, Meyneth. The Mechonis! [Zanza powers up the Monado as never before, filling the Mechonis Core with dazzling light. Outside, the Bionis' eyes light up, and the Bionis begins to move, seeming to utter a battle roar.] Reyn The Bionis! [The Bionis stretches its arms and puffs out its chest as Zanza watches.] Riki Bionis moves! [Dickson exits as Melia reacts in fright to the reawakened titan.] Egil I've been waiting. Waiting for this day! [As Egil regains control of Yaldabaoth, the eyes of the Mechonis light up.] Egil Zanza! [The Mechonis swings its sword, but the Bionis blocks with its arm.] Vanea Brother! Stop! You're too weak! Egil I don't care. I will gladly sacrifice myself to eliminate Zanza! As long as he lives, there can be no peace for us, or for the people of Bionis! [Zanza's soul lights up, and Egil's Mechon is sent reeling backwards. Zanza scoffs at him.] Zanza Then you shall cease to exist. [Zanza brings out the Monado, now transformed and more intricate.] Zanza By the wrath of my blade! [As Zanza activates the Monado, its brilliant light fills the battlefield, for now the Bionis is equipped with the weapon as well.] Dunban It's... the Monado! Egil I'll show you the meaning of wrath! [Egil raises his sword overhead to strike at Zanza as the Mechonis does the same to the Bionis. The Monado blocks the blade as great waves billow out on the sea from where the titans are fighting. Inside the Mechonis Core, a series of blue glowing cracks appear in Yaldabaoth's blade where it has connected with the Monado.] Egil What?! [The blue cracks appear on the Mechonis' sword outside as well. Inside, Zanza slices through the sword completely.] Zanza It's finished! [As the sword breaks off, Egil's machine now starts to go critical. Outside, the Bionis has cut through the sword to the neck, beheading the Mechonis. The Mechonis Core is now exposed to open air, and Yaldabaoth is sent flying helplessly across the core.] Vanea Brother! No! [Explosions ripple across the area. Vanea runs towards Egil.] Reyn Why?! Egil and Shulk had put their differences aside! Zanza Meaningless sentiment. Dunban Zanza! [Dunban looks to Reyn.] Dunban Reyn, now! Reyn Yeah! [The two run forward.] Melia How could you do this?! [Zanza looks down at Fiora cradling Shulk's head in her lap and unleashes a storm of golden energy, trapping the party inside a sphere of his making.] Zanza It is from me that all life is born. It lives only for me. And it shall be returned! [As Zanza raises the Monado, so does the Bionis. With Shulk's party trapped, the Bionis brings down its sword. Before it can connect, Meyneth's device on Fiora's chest glows red with power, and Fiora flies up out of the sphere and attacks Zanza with twin blades of a similar ornate design to Zanza's Monado. By the time the others come to, the sphere has dissipated. Above them, Zanza and Fiora/Meyneth lock blades - two Monados clash.] Zanza So you have finally unleashed your Monado. And there was me thinking you would die with dignity. Fiora [as Meyneth] I finally understand. The futures of our children belong to them alone. Though we are their creators, their lives are theirs to control. Even if the passage of fate is as you have decided, I will teach you the strength of their will to resist. [Zanza knocks Fiora/Meyneth away, but she lands on her feet. Zanza lowers himself to the ground before her.] Fiora [as Meyneth] Zanza. If you choose to deny the existence of every living being but yourself, then I choose to fight. To fight for them! Fiora [as herself] That's right. We won't let you erase everyone's futures! [Zanza and Fiora, now empowered by Meyneth, clash blades together, entering a duel of the gods for the first time in eons.] [By the end, the two gods have taken their battle to the skies above the exposed Mechonis Core. Zanza begins to gain the upper hand.] Zanza Something wrong? Is this the height of your skill? You call yourself a god?! [Zanza presses her against the core's wall as Meyneth cries out in pain.] Zanza And you talk of sharing this world with me?! [Fiora/Meyneth groans as she struggles with Zanza. He looks down to see Shulk lying on the ground.] Zanza So that's why. The dead boy is important to you. The Homs are nothing but bacteria clinging to my body! Fiora [as Meyneth] They are living beings! If you cannot understand this, you have no right to call yourself a god! Zanza And who decides that? A god. Because only a god may decide. This world only needs one god, Meyneth. [Zanza lets go of her and flings a golden energy blast down towards Shulk. Fiora/Meyneth rushes down to cut off the attack.] Zanza May you rot in that shell for all eternity! [Fiora intercepts the blast, resulting in an explosion above the core.] Sharla Fiora! [Fiora rises from Shulk's body, her Mechon body sparking from damage, and looks up at Zanza.] Zanza Face me like a god. [Zanza raises his Monado.] Zanza If not, then say goodbye to your putrid friends! [Zanza releases a very powerful X-shaped attack, drawing a lit 'X' across the entire sky and descending towards Shulk's party.] Fiora [as Meyneth] Zanza! [Lady Meyneth emerges from Fiora's body and flies towards Zanza's attack. The others below look on in shock; a red light glows at the center of the 'X'.] Vanea Meyneth! Zanza Such a fool. Meyneth This is what I wish. This world belongs to you all. [Fiora walks towards Meyneth.] Meyneth Create a world with no need for gods. [Lady Meyneth takes one last look down at Egil and smiles softly as she disappears in a shower of light.] Fiora Meyneth! [But Meyneth is gone, and Zanza's deadly attack with her. All that is left are the twin blades that are Meyneth's Monado. As they fall, Egil attempts to catch them with Yaldabaoth, but they are levitated beyond his reach and merge into a single blade, which flies into Zanza's outstretched hand. The god laughs.] Zanza This is the passage of fate! [Zanza takes both Monados and vanishes from the Mechonis Core. The blue light of the Bionis' blade hangs over the party.] Riki Zanza disappear. Reyn He's gone. And things ain't looking good for us! [Behind them, the Bionis stirs. At its head, Zanza appears in a ball of light atop Prison Island.] Zanza Let it begin. The ceremony of destruction and recreation! [A burst of blue light appears atop Prison Island, and the island sinks into Eryth Sea and inside the Bionis' head. As it does so, green light is emitted from Prison Island throughout the sea. When this light reaches Alcamoth, its citizens cry out as green ether energy causes them to painfully transform.] [From afar, where Shulk's companions look on, it appears as if there is a crown of green light on the head of the Bionis. Meanwhile, small explosions begin to erupt on Mechonis. The party have to shield themselves from the smoke.] Dunban The...the Bionis! That light! What's happening now? [Vanea runs down to where Egil has fallen, pinned inside of what remains of Yaldabaoth in the pit underneath the Mechonis Core.] Vanea Brother! Egil Vanea. I'm sorry. I was... Vanea I understand. I always knew it might come to this. Egil Go, Vanea. Do what you must while there is still time remaining. All hope is not lost. [More explosions can be seen from the core.] Vanea No! You must come with me! Egil I, too, have something that I must do. The final wish entrusted to me by Lady Meyneth. Vanea Brother. [Melia places a hand on Vanea's shoulder.] Vanea Melia? Melia I understand your feelings. Leave it to us. We know what we must do. We will do all we can for the people of Mechonis. [Another explosion sounds nearby.] Egil Now go! Shulk can still be saved. Do not let the last glimmer of hope be extinguished! Reyn Egil... Go in peace. [Reyn straps his weapon to his back.] Dunban Let's go! We're leaving the Mechonis! Reyn! Take care of Shulk! Reyn Got it. [Fiora grunts in pain.] Sharla You OK? Fiora Yes. [The component on Fiora's chest still glows, albeit faintly. Meanwhile, Dunban examines the transporter.] Dunban Good. It still works. The whole place is going to blow! We must return to Junks via the Central Factory! Sharla Let's go! Riki Dundun, what about Egil? Dunban He will fight Zanza to the very end. But we have our part of the bargain. Once he's gone, we're the only ones left. [Riki nods his understanding.] Dunban Let's move, everyone! [Vanea and Melia are the last to leave the Mechonis Core.] Vanea [inwardly] Goodbye, my brother... [The party manage to escape through the Central Factory. Once they're aboard, Junks flies out the Ventilation Conduit and into open air, garnering the attention of Zanza within the Bionis, whose voice is likewise amplified.] Zanza [V.O.] Stubborn mortals. So desperate to cling to your pathetic lives. Even when there is no hope for you! [The Bionis attempts to bring its enormous Monado down on Junks, but the Mechonis blocks the attack with its arm, allowing Junks to slip under it. Pieces of the Mechonis' arm fall away, and inside the core, Yaldabaoth continues to sustain heavy damage.] Zanza [V.O.] Don't you ever give up?! [The arm of the Mechonis is severed completely, as the same happens within the Mechonis Core.] Egil Never! But hear this, Zanza! They will judge me not in life, but death! [The Mechonis' remaining hand glows red, and the titan punches a whole in the Bionis' chest as Egil roars. Green gas emanates from the Bionis' wound. Now that hand too falls off, at the wrist. With no defences left to the Mechonis, the Bionis raises the Monado and brings it down for the killing blow.] Zanza [V.O.] Die! [The Bionis' blade cuts into the Mechonis with such force that the titan collapses to its knees as parts of it break up. The Mechonis then goes critical as it falls and begins to explode in an effusion of brilliant light. Inside, Egil is experiencing his final moments, as his Mechon begins an explosion of similar brilliance.] Egil Shulk. For both our worlds... You must succeed. Lady Meyneth... [As Egil disappears in blinding light, so too is the entire Mechonis consumed, until a vast beam of light extends from the sea skywards, and is absorbed into the heavens. The Mechonis is no more.] [From the bridge of Junks, the party watch the cataclysm as the Machina ship continues its flight.] Sharla The Mechonis! Vanea Egil! Reyn Look starboard! What's that cloud?! [What appears to be a green cloud approaches from the head of the Bionis. The group run outside onto the Junks Deck to find that this cloud is actually a horde of Telethia.] Melia It's Telethia! [Just then a huge Sureny Telethia rises from below. From it, Dickson leaps down to the Junks Deck.] Dickson You're not getting away! Dunban Dickson! Dickson Listen, it's over. Time for you all to return to the Bionis. Nice and quietly. Dunban That's enough! Why, Dickson?! What made you like this?! Shulk looked up to you, respected you! Sharla Dickson! Don't let Zanza control you! Wake up! Dickson You can quit your bellyaching! I'm in total control. I've always been like this! Ever since long before any of you lot were born! Dunban Before we were born?! Dickson Now you get it! It's just like Egil said. I'm Lord Zanza's disciple. Dickson of the Trinity! [Dickson unleashes the Sureny Telethia to attack the party.] [After the party are unable to defeat his Telethia, Dickson mounts the creature and proceeds to mock them.] Dickson You waste of space! Not so tough without Shulk, eh? Stupid beast! You should be grateful. Not everyone has a war buddy like me to lead them along. Tasted good, didn't they? [Flashback to the portrait in Dunban's House of Dunban posing in between Mumkhar and Dickson.] Dickson The victory drinks we used to share! [Back to the present.] Dunban I'll kill you! [Beams of green light suddenly fire on Dickson and his mount.] Dickson What?! [Dickson leaps off the Telethia.] Dickson Who was that? Show yourself! Kallian [O.C.] Melia, are you all right? [Melia watches as Kallian and his squadron of Havres fly into view.] Melia Brother! Reyn Kallian! Dickson! He works for the Bionis! He shot Shulk in the back! Kallian Is this true?! [Melia nods firmly. Kallian turns his Havres to face Dickson on his Telethia.] Kallian Dickson. This ends here. Your Telethia are no match for our Havres squadron. You cannot win! Dickson Maybe you should be concentrating on your own people instead of barking at me. [Kallian inhales sharply.] Dickson Looks like you've forgotten your destiny. Right, Lorithia? Kallian Lorithia?! [Kallian turns to Lorithia's Havres, positioned next to his.] Kallian Are you involved in this as well?! Lorithia Your Highness. Your naivety is quite charming. But it is also your undoing. [Lorithia begins to chuckle as green light appears all around her.] Lorithia I had much fun playing with you and your father. [The green light begins to expand out from Lorithia and her Havres.] Kallian What is this light?! Lorithia Ether particles emitted so that the Bionis can be destroyed and reborn. [She laughs to herself.] Lorithia What do you get if you cross high concentrations of ether with High Entia? Kallian No. You wouldn't. Lorithia! Lorithia Awaken, my darling pets! [The light continues to expand, and now mutation bubbles begin to appear on various Havres, transforming the vehicles and the High Entia who are onboard. The High Entia scream as they transform. Finally, wings appear on the newly morphed Telethia.] Fiora They are... Sharla Telethia! [Kallian struggles to fight against his transformation.] Melia Brother! Kallian Melia! Melia Lorithia! Let him go! [Lorithia's Havres is now a Telethia, upon whose back she stands.] Lorithia You misunderstand, child. This is the reason why High Entia are born. Do not blame poor old me. Dunban Explain yourself! Dickson It's just like she says. The High Entia are a race created by Lord Zanza to eliminate any annoying life forms in the preparation for the rebirth of the Bionis. Their bodies contain a gene that, when the time comes, transforms them into Telethia. [More High Entia and their Havres morph into Telethia as Dickson speaks. They cry out, then are gone. Melia reels backwards on the Junks Deck.] Melia It can't be. Say it isn't so! Kallian Melia, it is true. That is why you are our only hope. Melia Brother? Dickson Whatever. We won't be needing a half-breed like you anyway. I mean, if you don't turn into a Telethia, it just means you're gonna get crushed by one! That's the only thing you're good for. [Melia gasps, then faces Dickson angrily.] Dickson Rise up, pet! Do my bidding! Kill your lovely sister! [Kallian screams as green light and mutation bubbles continue to envelope him.] Melia Brother! [Green veins appear on Kallian's face, and rays of green light shine forth from the Telethia that used to be his Havres.] Melia Brother! [Melia runs forward on the deck, dodging shots as she goes.] Melia Just hold on! I'll find a way to save you! Kallian Melia! So...sorry. I always placed such a heavy burden on you. Melia Don't say such things, Brother! [The rest of the party run up to the edge of the deck where Melia stands.] Kallian But at least I can still shoulder the destiny of our people. The burden meant for you! Dickson Brings a tear to my eye! Lorithia These moments are to be treasured. [Kallian roars and takes control of his Telethia body, charging up powerful light energy. Lorithia gasps.] Lorithia How?! [Kallian's Telethia faces away from the party on the Junks Deck and charges forward against the other Telethia in the sky.] Melia Brother! Kallian Melia! Father's wish, and the future of the High Entia, are in your hands. Yours and Shulk's! [Lorithia gasps in realisation.] Lorithia Telethia! Destroy him! [The other Telethia open fire on Kallian, but he progresses towards Lorithia nevertheless, emitting a powerful light as he goes.] Lorithia Dickson! Dickson I got it! [But Kallian keeps coming.] Kallian Too late! Dickson Damn him! [Kallian slams into Lorithia's Telethia, resulting in a burst of brilliant light that expands across the sky.] Melia Brother! [Reyn and Dunban pull Melia away as the light continues to radiate outwards. The screen fades to white.] [Alone in Memory Space once again, Shulk floats in a sitting position.] Shulk Where am I? [Momentary flashback to Dickson shooting Shulk in the back and Zanza emerging from his body.] Shulk Oh. So I'm... [Shulk starts laughing uncontrollably.] Shulk What was I doing? What was the purpose of my life? [Flashback: Fiora's mobile artillery is slammed against a house in Colony 9. Shulk cries out in alarm. Metal Face skewers Fiora with his claws.] [Flashback: Shulk melts part of Metal Face's armour with the Monado.] [Flashback: Shulk is operating the crane in the Central Pit to save Otharon.] [Flashback: Shulk talks with Melia in Makna Forest.] [Flashback: Zanza in his Giant form speaks to Shulk at Prison Island.] [Flashback: Shulk releases Zanza's shackles with the Monado.] [Flashback: Shulk cuts open Face Nemesis and sees Fiora inside.] [Flashback: Shulk's reunion with Fiora on the Fallen Arm.] [Flashback: Fiora beckons Shulk to rejoin the party on their way to the Apocrypha Generator.] [After the flashbacks cease, Shulk reaches out a hand to the emptiness.] Shulk No. I've got it wrong. I was never alive. It was Zanza! [Flashback to Shulk's childhood dream in Ose Tower.] Shulk All along! [Back in the present, Shulk is near tears.] Shulk I... Everything I did was... Alvis [V.O.] Do you want to say 'pointless'? [Shulk gasps and looks up.] Shulk That voice! [Shulk sees a shimmering light.] Alvis Nobody else can decide that. [Alvis appears out of the light. Alvis and Shulk then stand facing each other.] Alvis Only you. [Meanwhile, Junks is now docked in the lake at Colony 6. Shulk lies on the bed in Linada's laboratory, still breathing. Fiora watches over him.] Fiora Shulk. [She lifts a Replica Monado towards him.] Fiora Here. Miqol made you a wonderful new weapon. Since you lost your Monado, I mean. It uses the latest Machina technology. Use it when you wake up. [She places the weapon against his bed.] Fiora Then let's all go on living. [Meanwhile, Miqol, Otharon, Alvis, Chief Dunga and others meet with the party on the Junks bridge.] Otharon We've relocated the High Entia and Nopon refugees to Colony 6. Thankfully the Mechon did us a favour by fortifying it for us. It should hold out for a while. Dunban It's ironic. We want to escape Zanza but we can't leave his body, the Bionis. Reyn Well...this is our home. Otharon [to Melia] Princess, I have to know. Should we be worried about the evacuated High Entia? Melia I cannot be sure, but I believe not. All those who survived are part Homs like me. Otharon Understood. Melia If they ever do transform, I will be among them. If that time comes, you know what to do. Otharon Are you sure? Melia Everyone is obliged to accept their fate. Reyn No way! There's no way Kallian would leave the fate of the High Entia to you if that was gonna happen! Dunban Precisely. And Melia... If we are to survive, we must fight Zanza and the Telethia. It may not be the case with all of them, but a large number of Telethia were once High Entia - your subjects and your brethren. Melia I am prepared for that. Even if it means harming my brethren, it is for the protection of the survivors. That is the final wish of my father and brother. I will fight! To free the souls stolen by Zanza. Dunban You are a fighter, Melia. We will need all your strength in the fight ahead. [Fiora and Sharla enter.] Reyn How's Shulk? Fiora He's going to make it. His wound has closed. I think Meyneth used the last of her power to protect him... Reyn So he's OK. Sharla Linada is tending to him now. Melia Fiora? Fiora He won't wake up. It's like his consciousness has sunk to the bottom of a cold, dark lake. I keep saying his name but he doesn't respond. Reyn Zanza's gonna pay for this! Juju What if the Telethia attack?! Otharon Then we'll have to fight without Shulk. That's why we've strengthened our defences. Miqol That weapon I made should come in handy as well. Reyn We're backed into a corner, but we'll give it all we've got. Alvis Can your resistance truly achieve anything? Reyn What do you mean by that, Alvis? Alvis Exactly what I said. We were all born of the Bionis, of Zanza. It is Zanza's will that the Telethia return us to the body from whence we came. Whether we die of old age or in battle, we all eventually return to the Bionis. We cannot escape this fate. Am I wrong? Reyn You've got it backwards, man. Just 'cos he thinks it, doesn't make it so. We decide whether to keep living or not. Dunban I agree. Even though he is our creator, that does not afford him the right to take our lives on a whim. Alvis But that is the thinking of a Homs. He is a god. Such morals cannot apply to gods. Reyn So you think we should just shut up and die?! Alvis If that is the fate decided by a god. Dunban You are mistaken if you think we will simply accept such a fate and wait to die. Reyn We'll never stop fighting. Not till the end! Alvis To Zanza, the outcome is the same. Thus your logic is flawed. Reyn It ain't the outcome that's important. It's the will to fight back. Alvis Even if you die in vain? Reyn Alvis! Whose side are you on?! You scared or something?! Frightened of a few Telethia?! Otharon Stop this. There's no point fighting amongst ourselves! [Reyn drops the subject with a grumble. Just then, Fiora clutches her chest.] Melia Fiora? Fiora Sorry. I need to go and get some air. [Fiora exits. Melia hesitates, then decides to go after her.] [Melia finds Fiora at the bottom of the steps leading to the Pod Depot outisde Colony 6.] Melia Fiora, are you all right? Fiora Guess I wasn't hiding it well. I didn't want to worry anyone. Melia It must be difficult living with that body. Fiora I'm getting more and more used to it. But people still look at me funny. Ah, it's not that bad. It feels pretty comfortable actually. I don't need to worry about food or anything like that. Melia I see. Fiora This body... The energy from the chest component made it work. It turned out to be a Monado. Such a strange feeling. Melia A Monado? [Melia ponders, then turns to Fiora.] Melia Was that the Monado that Zanza took from Meyneth?! [Fiora nods.] Melia Will your body cease to function?! Fiora I'll be fine for now. There's still some stored energy left. Melia But then what? [Fiora walks a short distance from Melia and stands with her back to her.] Fiora Melia, if I ever... Please take care of Shulk. Melia Don't talk like that! How can you ask me such a thing? Fiora I'm sorry. Melia There's no need to apologise. [Fiora turns back to Melia.] Fiora You're right. Thank you, Melia. [Melia walks up to Fiora.] Melia If Shulk awakes, will you tell him? Fiora No. He worries too much anyway. Melia He does worry. It's just like him. Fiora Actually, I'm already dead. I have been since the Mechon attacked. Melia Fiora... Fiora But I'm happy now. This body has given me the chance to live. [Fiora begins to walk.] Fiora Maybe I don't have much time left. But at least I can be with Shulk for a little while longer. Melia Do you feel that strongly for him? [Fiora turns to face Melia.] Fiora Yes. That's why I'll fight on, and help him in any way I can. [There is a brief silence between the two girls.] Fiora Let's get back. Everyone will start worrying. Melia Yes. You are right. [As the two begin walking back, Fiora stops them.] Fiora And Melia... Can you keep it secret from the others? Melia You do not want them to worry. I admire your strength. Fiora Maybe I'll tell him. But only when the time is right. Melia I won't say a word. [Melia watches Fiora climb up the steps.] Melia I'm nothing compared to her. [Just then, a siren interrupts her thoughts. Melia catches up to Fiora.] Fiora A siren?! Melia Fiora! Let's hurry back! Fiora OK! [They both run back into the colony. The siren continues to sound throughout Colony 6, as those inside Junks can hear.] Dunban That siren! Is that...?! [Two Defence Force Soldiers hurry into Junks.] Defence Force Soldier Telethia! A hoard of them are approaching! Dunban Let's move! Reyn Gotcha! Fiora [O.C.] I'm going too! [Fiora and Melia enter the bridge of Junks.] Reyn But Shulk needs you! Fiora I know, but I can't just stay here. What if something happened to you? What would I tell Shulk when he wakes up? Melia Fiora, are you sure? [Fiora nods at Melia, who nods back.] [Shortly, the party dash out of Colony 6's Main Entrance. Telethia are already gathering above nearby Hope Farm. Sharla and Riki run up to meet them, the latter groaning as he runs.] Riki Lots of Dinobeast! Sharla Look, it's him! [Dickson swoops in on his Telethia, high above the others.] Reyn So he survived. Dunban Dickson! Dickson That's right! Glad to see me? Reyn Shut up! [Dickson merely laughs.] Dickson Looks like that High Entia's big bro died for nothing! [Melia gasps in anger and sticks her staff into the ground defiantly.] Dickson Don't be like that. You'll meet him soon enough. [Dickson begins patting a Telethia.] Dickson You might even be reborn if you're returned to Lord Zanza. Who knows? He might be your boyfriend in the next life. Melia You will not mock the memory of my brother! Dickson You lot don't know when you're beaten! [Dickson kicks the smaller Telethia downwards.] Dickson Why don't you just give up? [The Telethia that Dickson kicked comes bearing down on the party.] [Meanwhile, Shulk's dream in Memory Space continues.] Shulk It's my decision. Alvis In order to perpetuate their existence, Zanza and Meyneth must use a being they created as a physical host. They cannot exist forever as mere souls. This world was created so that they may continue to exist. It is for this reason that its existence, and future, is in their hands. [Alvis stretches out his own hand.] Alvis This is the passage of fate. And your visions. People live and die at the mercy of Zanza. And through this, Zanza maintains the existence of this world. Shulk Our destruction was always inevitable. Everything we did was meaningless. Alvis Are you certain? [Flashback to Zanza at the Mechonis Core.] Alvis It was his will to revive you and use you as a host. [Zanza holds up both his and Meyneth's Monados.] Alvis Taking the Monado from Meyneth, doing with the world as he wishes... [Zanza then disappears from the Mechonis Core.] Alvis Everything was as he decided. [Back to the present.] Alvis But why is it that Zanza now wishes to destroy you? What is the need for this? Shulk That's because... Alvis He in fact has no choice but to do it. If he does not, he risks his entire existence. Shulk And we're the source of that risk? But why? [View of a planet eclipsing the sun in the background, allowing only small glimpses of light through.] Alvis It is a marvel to exist outside the passage of fate. The lives created by Zanza and Meyneth inevitably attempt to escape the passage of fate. [The view returns to Shulk as Alvis continues to speak.] Alvis This signifies the beginning of their destruction. [Flashback to Meyneth, after emerging from Fiora's body.] Alvis Meyneth accepted this, and entrusted the future of this world [Back to Shulk in the present.] Alvis to you. [A series of flashbacks to Reyn repelling the Arachno Queen's attack under the protection of Monado Shield, then to Sharla hugging Juju, then to Otharon falling towards the ether river in the Central Pit.] Alvis Many times, your visions have allowed you to change the passage of fate. [Flashbacks to Emperor Sorean at Prison Island and Gadolt in Agniratha.] Alvis You saved the lives of those destined to die. [Back to the present.] Shulk I couldn't save everyone. Alvis Nothing that exists is perfect. It is a sad truth, but you can learn from it and begin the journey on a new path. Not Zanza's path, but one that you forge yourselves. Shulk Our own path... Alvis So decide, Shulk. Will you walk the path laid out by Zanza? Or will you walk a new path? [Shulk turns away from Alvis.] Alvis The Monado awaits you. [Shulk then turns back to Alvis.] Shulk That was always how it was going to be. If I'd wanted to walk the predetermined path, I wouldn't have come this far. Even with the odds stacked against us, even though I can't see the future, I'll keep walking. My own path. That I decide. Fiora. Reyn. Dunban. Sharla. Melia, Riki. We all feel the same. Alvis Well then. You must defy fate to succeed. [An aurora-like light appears around Alvis and Shulk.] Alvis Succeed and follow a new path. Shulk Alvis. Are you- Alvis You already know. You know what I am. And what you must do. [Shulk looks at his right hand and then places it on his chest. Rainbow-hued light emanates from the contact, turning white. As the light expands, the screen fades to white.] [Just outside Colony 6 meanwhile, the Telethia attack is underway.] Reyn These things don't give up! Riki Riki never lose. Riki protect Colony 6! Sharla Right! We can't let them get any further! Dunban You know the drill. Take them down! Reyn Oh yeah! [The team fight on and destroy the initial three Telethia, but more swoop in. Dunban slashes with his sword as Juju opens fire behind him. Reyn hacks at one while Sharla blows away a Telethia with her rifle. Riki hits a Dinobeast and promptly dodges its counterattack. Fiora uses her drones to take down several Telethia at once, but more come in to attack; Melia comes to her aid with the protective power of her staff. Juju continues firing away.] Juju If only Shulk was here. We're dead meat without the Monado! [A Telethia swipes at Juju from behind, but Reyn counters the attack.] Reyn Get away from him! [Reyn kicks the Telethia away.] Reyn Forget about the Monado, kid. More space between Zanza and us, the better! [Sharla backs up close to them; healing ether particles from her rifle shower all three of them.] Sharla If Reyn's got time to sound off, we must be doing OK! Reyn We are doing OK! Dunban Reyn is correct. [Dunban pulls his sword out of a Telethia's gut.] Dunban Perhaps we relied too much on the Monado and Shulk. [More Telethia fly in from above.] Fiora Right! We've chosen to fight the Bionis. We have to manage on our own! [Fiora opens fire with more Cannon Drones. Above them, Dickson merely laughs.] Dickson Look at them struggle. If they can't handle a few Telethia, how do they expect to defeat me? [Fiora slashes away at more Telethia. Dunban holds his sword out, winded.] Dunban This is not the end! [A Telethia swoops down on Dunban from behind. Fiora notices and runs towards her brother.] Fiora Dunban! [Fiora takes the attack meant for him, which knocks her a short distance away into the grass.] Dunban Fiora! [A Telethia comes in to finish her off, but Dunban blocks it with his sword; his blade is locked against the creature's talons.] Reyn Dunban! [Reyn knocks the Telethia away.] Reyn Are you OK? Dunban I just overdid it. [Dunban kneels beside his sister, who is breathing hard.] Dunban Fiora! Fiora I'm OK. I can still fight. Dickson Why are you bothering to try and cover it up? Go on, just admit you've had enough. Reyn Never! Sharla Look out! Riki Lots of Dinobeasts! [A group of large, three-headed Telethia land, surrounding the party, who then close up protectively around Fiora in the centre.] Dunban It truly seems as though everything is going as Zanza planned. [The rest of the group look to Dunban.] Dunban But our hearts and minds... They still hold the will to seize our own destiny! [Dunban raises his voice.] Dunban No matter how hard you try to break us, the future is ours to shape, Dickson! Always! Dickson When will you learn you have no future? Face it! [One of the Telethia begins charging up an attack from its middle head.] Dickson Your destiny is to die here! [Just then, Shulk comes running, the Replica Monado activated, and buries the blade in the head of the Telethia that was charging up the attack. Bleeding green, it rears back and throws Shulk off. As the party watch in amazement, Shulk lands back on the Telethia, his blade carving through the creature's neck and down its spine as Shulk slides down its back.] Dickson What?! [Shulk lands, and the mighty Telethia falls over sideways.] Reyn Shulk! Melia Thank goodness you're here! Dickson Damn kid! So, you're still alive. [Shulk doesn't respond.] Dickson Attack! Destroy them! [More Telethia fire beams from above. Shulk, uttering a battle cry, runs to meet them. As though seeing the future, he dodges a beam, slashes into one Telethia, then dodges another beam as he cuts up another foe.] Dickson What?! [Shulk walks back to his friends.] Reyn That was awesome! Shulk Sorry for worrying you all. Fiora Shulk. Welcome back. Shulk Fiora. Dickson Little brat. What's he gone and done now? [Fiora's chest component, where Meyneth's Monado used to be, glows red again.] Dickson Time for me to get my hands dirty. Fiora Shulk, look out! [Dickson's Sureny Telethia smashes to the ground, just in front of Shulk and his companions.] Dickson Oi, kid! It's about time for your final lesson. Shulk Dickson! Dickson Show me what you've got! You think you've got the power to oppose Lord Zanza?! Let's see how you do against me! [Shulk and the others destroy the Sureny Telethia, which perishes in a burst of bright light.] Dickson That brat. How could he read my movements? What the hell's going on? Reyn Shulk! How'd ya do it? Shulk I could see it. The future! I don't have the Monado, but it came to me, Reyn. From within! Reyn Nice one! Looks like we're back in business! Dickson Bunch of ingrates! [Dickson hollers at someone unseen.] Dickson Oi! Stop hiding and get yourself out here! I don't appreciate being left to do all the hard work! Alvis! Dunban What?! It can't be! [Alvis walks silently past the stunned party.] Reyn Alvis! Not you too! Dickson Yeah! Another one of Lord Zanza's faithful. One of the Trinity. Sharla No! How can he be one of them?! Melia Alvis! Is this the only reason you served under my family?! You traitor! [Alvis continues walking, without reply.] Reyn Oi! Say something! [Reyn goes to pursue Alvis, but Shulk stops him.] Reyn Shulk! Shulk Leave it. It doesn't matter what he is. That doesn't change anything at all. Does it, Alvis? Alvis Yes. Precisely. You must find your own path to the future. [Alvis stretches out a hand, and the beating of wings is heard.] Sharla The Telethia. He's...! [A Sani Telethia comes to hover by Alvis' side.] Reyn So you're just another one of Zanza's lapdogs! Sharla Get ready, everyone. Dunban Show them no mercy. Alvis As you wish. Let us see that will to survive! [Alvis' Telethia roars in readiness.] [But the team stand up to Alvis and defeat the Sani Telethia.] Reyn That all ya got?! Not so tough without your pet, are ya?! [Alvis gives a mild chuckle. Reyn rushes at him.] Reyn I'll show you the will to survive! [Dickson tracks Reyn with his Sabre and shoots; Shulk runs in and deflects the shot with his Replica Monado. Dickson gives a grunt of disappointment.] Dickson Meddling kids! Alvis I have seen your will to fight. It is time to decide. What do you say? Does this world belong to you or to Zanza? Well? Dickson Either way's good with me. But I wonder what Zanza would say about it. Alvis He desires the same. And he sees everything. As you see, Shulk. Dickson It's like he says. [Dickson leaps onto a passing Telethia with a shout. Alvis mounts one as well.] Reyn Get back here! Alvis You understand. Don't you, Shulk? [Shulk sees a vision: Prison Island submerging into the head of the Bionis. Then atop Prison Island, the party fight Dickson in his Giant form. After the vision passes, Shulk answers.] Shulk Yeah. You can bet on it. Alvis We'll be waiting. Dickson We'll be on our best behaviour! Shulk And we will be the best guests you ever had. Dickson That's quite a good comeback. I'm impressed! [Dickson, Alvis and the Telethia fly away from Shulk's group and Colony 6. Dickson looks down and notices his hand shaking.] Dickson I'm trembling. Me! [The view momentarily shifts to Shulk before returning to Dickson riding away on his Telethia.] Dickson Stupid, meddling kid. [Dickson begins to laugh.] Dickson After all these years. I never thought the day would come when I would feel fear. [Shulk's party watch the Telethia depart.] [Back in Colony 6 a short time later, Fiora walks out onto the Junks Deck alone. On the ship's bridge, the rest of the party regroup.] Shulk Dunban, have you seen Fiora? Dunban I have. She said she was going out to get some air. I don't think she went far. Shulk Thanks. I'll take a look. [Shulk exits onto the deck, where he finds Fiora dealing with some apparent physical pain.] Shulk Fiora, here you are. Fiora Ah, Shulk! [Shulk comes over to her.] Shulk What's wrong? Fiora It's nothing. [Fiora looks up at the empty sky above Colony 6.] Fiora It's...so peaceful. It's hard to believe that we defeated a horde of Telethia just minutes ago. Shulk Zanza wants to finish us all. So he can make the vision he's had come true. We're in the calm before the storm. Fiora They'll be back, won't they? The Telethia... To remove us all from this world... Shulk I won't let that happen. Whatever the future holds, we can never give in. Not to Zanza... No, not even to our destiny. Fiora I wonder why Alvis said what he did. Shulk Which part? Fiora Does this world belong to us, or to Zanza? Why would he side with Zanza? Power? Or maybe he wants to live forever. Shulk Who knows... But I don't think his motives are that simple. I'm sure Alvis has some kind of plan. [Shulk pauses and walks a short distance away.] Shulk Otherwise, why would he speak to me in my dreams? Fiora He spoke to you in your dreams? Shulk That's another reason why I have to find Zanza. I have to find out why. Fiora You and me both. I must fulfill Meyneth's wish! [Fiora goes to stand with Shulk; together they look up at the sky.] Fiora Shulk? You wanted to speak to me about something? Shulk Oh, that's right. Linada's looking for you. She wants to examine you. She's back at Junks. Fiora Oh... Hey...umm... Can you go ahead? I'll go and see Linada in a minute. I need a few minutes to myself. Shulk OK. No problem. Take your time. Fiora Thank you. [Shulk goes back inside Junks, leaving Fiora alone.] Fiora What can I do? If I go to see Linada, she'll find out what's happening to my body. I need to come up with a good excuse. [Fiora looks up, as if in prayer.] Fiora Please... Let me be with Shulk just a little bit longer... [Soon, Shulk and Fiora rejoin the others on the bridge of Junks.] Shulk Zanza is inside the Bionis. I just know it. Dunban Dickson must be there as well. Shulk Yes. And Alvis too. Reyn That's all good, but how do we get to them? If they're inside the Bionis, we're gonna need to dig a pretty big hole. Riki How long that take? Riki get old soon! Miqol It just so happens I have the answer. On the Bionis' chest is a massive hole that leads inside. It's the wound made by Egil's final attack. Shulk Then that means... Otharon Yes. While the allied force keeps the Telethia busy... You can sneak inside that wound and take out Zanza! Vanea We will take Junks. Let my father know when you are ready to depart. Reyn Yeah! Time to knock some heads! Riki Riki never lose! For Riki family, Riki win! Dunban We must show this god our unyielding will to survive! Melia The suffering of my people will not be in vain! Sharla The crimes against our friends will not go unpunished! Fiora Shulk! Shulk Ready. We go to the Bionis' chest. We will free our world from Zanza's curse! [Later, after all preparations are made, Junks lifts off from Colony 6 and soars straight into the gaping wound in the chest of the still-moving Bionis. Junks then docks at the Interior Landing Site on the path to the First Lung. The party debark to a strange, dark, but bioluminescent world.] Shulk It's the inside of the Bionis. Dunban It looks quite different from when we entered via the marsh. Sharla The Bionis is regaining its biological functions. Reyn Must be 'cos Zanza woke it up. [Shulk steps forward and turns to face the group.] Shulk Then we find Zanza, and stop him. [The party make their way through the First Lung.] [Bionis area intro: Bionis' Interior] [The party emerge from the First Lung and come into an open area within the Bionis' chest, where veins crisscross one another and the heart of the Bionis beats in the centre. As they begin crossing to the Spinal Nerve Tower, the group are stopped by the sound of Lorithia's mocking laughter.] Lorithia [O.C.] You look well, Your Highness. Melia That voice... It's Lorithia! Show yourself! [The voice seems to be coming from the direction of the Bionis' heart.] Lorithia [O.C.] Look at that. The heart of the Bionis. The pulsating life of Lord Zanza! Reyn Quit yer yapping and show yourself! [Lorithia looks down on the group from the Aortic Pathway high above.] Lorithia I await Your Highness here. There is something I wish to show you. Your friends are welcome to join you. That is if they survive. [Lorithia blows them a mocking kiss and laughs as she enters the heart.] Melia Lorithia! What are you planning?! Shulk Forget her for now. We must push on to the heart. Melia All right. [Later, Shulk's party enter the Bionis' heart to challenge Lorithia.] Lorithia Welcome to my world. I must say, I am surprised. Zanza's vessel truly does have a will of its own. And looking quite spritely. Shulk I'm still alive. I won't die. Not yet. And that's why we're here. Fiora Everyone who lives in this world has a life. So it shouldn't be threatened by anyone. We'll never give in to Zanza. Lorithia So full of passion. Well, if it's life you're looking for, I'll show you true life! [Lorithia summons a Telethia down into the heart. Sharla gasps.] Sharla It's... [As the Telethia lands, its face is recognisable as that of Kallian.] Dunban Kallian! [Melia runs forward.] Melia Brother! Lorithia There is no use in calling. It worked before, but now his transformation is complete. He is my adorable servant. [Lorithia raises Kallian's chin with her hand and proceeds to kiss him on the mouth in front of the party. Melia gasps, horrified. When Lorithia finishes her kiss, she mounts the Telethia Kallian, which then glows with powerful light as Lorithia readies herself for battle.] Lorithia Do you know the meaning of the word 'Telethia'? It means that which eliminates impure life. Impure life just like you. [By now, Lorithia has merged with Kallian's Telethia.] Lorithia That which Lord Zanza does not require shall be extinguished from this world! [The Telethia roars a battle cry, and the group has no choice but to destroy Disciple Lorithia.] [After the party's defeat of Lorithia and Kallian, the Telethia glows with explosive power.] Melia Brother! [As the explosion envelopes the party, Melia finds herself in a world of gleaming white. In this light, Kallian, wholly himself and a High Entia again, approaches her.] Melia Brother? Is that really you? [Melia collapses to her knees, near tears.] Melia I have longed to see you. Kallian I too, Melia. Melia Brother, I must apologise. To you and to everyone. Kallian Because of our transformation into Telethia? Melia I am a princess. But I brought misfortune upon the High Entia. I... I... [Melia wipes her eyes, and Kallian raises her chin.] Kallian You are mistaken, Melia. The Telethia gene lies dormant within us all. There was no escaping the cursed blood in our veins, sister. It was fate. That is why our father sought to dilute the bloodline. [Melia begins to cry. Kallian places his hands on her shoulders.] Kallian You are the hope of the High Entia. You will not transform into a Telethia. Even after the Bionis has reawakened, you can still succeed the imperial line. You have the power to end our suffering. Knowing this, both I and father were happy to sacrifice ourselves. It was our choice. Melia Brother. Kallian There is no need to fear. After all, this is precisely our wish. [Kallian stands.] Kallian In the end, you are the only ones who can stop Zanza. [Melia stands as well.] Melia Yes. [Kallian turns away from Melia.] Kallian Now, leave her to me. You must go. You must accompany Shulk. [The world of white is gone, and the explosion reverts to an implosion, which begins to consume Lorithia.] Lorithia No! My Telethia! You! What have you done?! Melia I have done nothing. This is your destiny. Accept it with dignity! [Lorithia cries out as Melia raises her staff as a shield.] Lorithia My body! No! I was promised immortality! [Lorithia screams as the implosion climaxes, taking her with it. A small glowing green light is all that remains, high above, and within that light, Kallian can be seen.] Melia Brother. Kallian Melia. At long last I can be with Father. You must now live your own life. The path you forge. The future you choose. That is the hope of the High Entia. [And with that, Kallian is gone in a small burst of light. A few feathers from his wings descend slowly onto Melia's staff below, which themselves also dematerialise upon landing.] Melia Thank you, Brother. Your words will stay with me forever. Shulk His words? Riki Riki heard. Riki heard Melly's brother. Kallian say 'hope of Bird People'. Where Melly's brother? Riki not see him, but Riki hear him. Melia Riki. [Melia bends down and embraces Riki.] Melia You, too, heard his parting words. Thank you. [Melia holds Riki in her arms, her head resting on his. After regaining her composure, Melia rises.] Fiora Melia... Melia Thank you for your concern. I am all right. Let us go and secure the future my brother so hoped for. Shulk We will. Together. [The sound of one arriving via transporter can be heard, followed by Dickson's taunting laughter.] Dickson [O.C.] Such a brave princess. [The party turn and gasp upon seeing him.] Dunban Dickson. Dickson Don't look at me like that! I take time out of my schedule to send you off to a nice spot, and that's how ya welcome me? Reyn What do you mean?! Dickson I'll be waiting at Prison Island. I've picked out a lovely place to return your flesh and blood to the Bionis. Don't keep me waiting! See you later! [Dickson laughs as he walks back into the black fog that serves as a transporter to Prison Island.] Reyn I'm gonna... Dunban Come on, everyone! We've got to get to Prison Island! Shulk OK! [Shulk and the others enter the black fog and pursue Dickson.] [Inside the head of the Bionis, Prison Island now floats in a void of ominous dark clouds, above and below. The party emerge from the black fog to find themselves at Prison Island, on the Bridge of Grief.] Reyn Hey! Is this?! Melia It's Prison Island. So it has sunk into the Bionis' head. [The view shifts to a fiery red light glowing on the tower atop Prison Island.] Riki Dundun, Riki feel funny feeling from above! Riki instinct say Dickson is there! Dunban Yes, I agree. Reyn Start praying to Zanza, Dickson! We're coming! [The party make their way to the Arena on Prison Island. As soon as they enter, the door closes shut behind them. Dickson prowls along one of the upper rows.] Dickson What took you so long? [Dunban gasps.] Dunban Dickson! Dickson Are you even trying to fight? Things are gonna get a lot worse if you don't buck up your ideas! Sharla Come down here and say that! [Dickson walks up to the Empty Throne overlooking the Arena, and as soon as he does, a swirling blue light appears, summoning a Master Obart, which sits on the throne.] Reyn What on Bionis is that?! [The Master Obart roars, and one of the Arena doors falls open; an Obelis Obart enters to fight Shulk's team.] Dickson It's the warm-up act. If you can't get by this one, you don't stand a chance against me! Reyn Stop these games, old man! Dickson You'll have to stop this thing first! [Dickson walks behind the throne on his way to leave.] Dickson Hurry up! I'm just itching for a good old-fashioned scrap! [Dickson exits, and the party are on their own.] Fiora Everyone, be careful! Riki Monster want to eat Riki! Reyn This thing is no match for us! [The group fight and defeat the Obart. Afterwards, the Bone Pillar descends, submerging the Arena. From there, they get out of the Behemoth Nest to reach the Control Device to return the Bone Pillar to its original position. Finally, they return to the Arena and defeat the Master Obart.] [The party continue their pursuit of Dickson and reach Gondorl Cathedral.] Fiora Where are we? What is this place? Melia It looks like a cathedral. There's an altar over there. [The faces of dragons can be seen at this altar.] Riki These have scary faces! Dunban We better take a look. [The group investigate a dragon-shaped seal on the altar.] Reyn You see something, Shulk? Shulk This indentation... It looks like something should fit inside it. [Riki walks up to take a look.] Riki Yep! Riki feel like something here! Reyn It's probably a way up to the top. Fiora Could it really be that easy? Shulk There's no use thinking about it. Let's search for whatever fits into the gap. [The party use the Dragon Summon at Basverg Belfry to summon Dragon King Alcar to the Corridor of Silence in Gondorl Cathedral. They defeat the dragon and then fit the Dragon's Eye into the altar, releasing the seal and opening a transporter to the top.] [Shulk and his companions go to use the transporter.] Dunban I can sense Dickson. We must be near the top. If we proceed from here, we will be unable to return. Are you ready to go on? [If Shulk answers "No"...] Shulk No, I need more time. Dunban I understand. We'll be ready. [If Shulk answers "Yes"...] Shulk Yes, I'm ready. [Dunban decides to make sure that Shulk and the others are truly ready.] Dunban Aren't you scared? Shulk I would be lying if I said no. But still, we must go on. Fiora Agreed. We know what we're fighting for. Reyn We decided ages ago! [Dunban laughs to himself.] Fiora Dunban? Dunban Oh, sorry. I just got caught up in the moment. Shulk Come on, Dunban. Dunban Right! Let's go! Time to seize our destiny! [Meanwhile, in the skies above Colony 6, Telethia are attacking. Homs soldiers and High Entia refugees fight back, but the battle isn't going well.] Juju Otharon! We can't hold out any longer! Otharon Stop complaining! We're not the only ones fighting. Believe in Shulk and the others! We will defend this place until they get back. That's the plan, so stick to it! [Juju hesitates.] Juju Understood! [Juju opens fire, but a nearby blast sends both him and Otharon flying forward. As Juju attempts to rise, he is accosted by a three-headed Telethia. He cowers before it, but then a faced Mechon flies in and grabs hold of the Telethia, flinging it into a nearby wall. With a sparking hammer, the Face mashes the Telethia, destroying it. The Mechon then turns to Juju, its red eyes flashing as it observes him. Juju braces for an attack, but instead the Mechon takes off into the sky.] Juju That faced Mechon! [Otharon walks up.] Otharon They're on our side now. They used to be Homs, all of them. They may look different, but they all want the same thing as us. [Otharon readies his rifle.] Otharon Juju, let's go! Juju All right! [Juju grabs his rifle off the ground and follows Otharon back into the fray.] [Back inside the Bionis, the party enter Prison Terrace where Dickson awaits. He leans against the terrace wall with his arms crossed.] Shulk Dickson! Dickson Kept me waiting a while, Shulk! Shulk Waiting for us to fight you? Dickson Yeah. That's what it's come to. Or will you just shut up and let me kill you? Shulk We'll never do that. Dickson Just as I expected. [Dickson shrugs.] Dickson Wouldn't have it any other way. [Dickson enters a battle stance.] Dickson I've been working for Lord Zanza since the beginning. I raised you purely so he could live on. Shulk I know. And I must thank you for granting me such power. It's all down to you that I'm standing here ready for you now. Dickson Enough talk, boy! [Dickson roars as he mutates into a terrible form, that of a Giant. He swings a massive blade in the direction of Shulk's party.] Shulk Dickson! If you're so determined to stop us, then we will kill you! [Shulk and his friends draw their weapons, ready to take Dickson on.] [By the end of the battle, however, the party members lie on the ground before Disciple Dickson, near their wits' end.] Dickson This is getting boring. You worms are no match for me! [Dickson dashes forward to finish them off, but Fiora leaps in the way, using her twin blades to block Dickson's attack. He is momentarily taken aback as their blades lock.] Dickson I see you've inherited Meyneth's power. Fiora Not her power. [Dickson makes a questioning sound.] Fiora I've inherited her memories. That's why I fight you! [Shulk, now on his feet, comes up alongside Fiora.] Shulk Fiora! [Fiora shoves her blades off of Dickson's.] Dickson Memories, huh? And what good are those meant to be? Can't use memories to kill anyone! Fiora Why are you fighting? You're helping Zanza to create a world where nothing exists. What could you possibly hope to get out of it?! [Dickson gives Fiora a derisive laugh.] Dickson Only those with power have the right to decide such things! Fiora You're wrong! Dickson Zanza just tells me where to fight, and I fight. And that's how I like it! Fiora Is that your reason? For fighting? Dickson It's the only reason! Fiora Meyneth wished for a world where the peoples of Bionis and Mechonis could live hand-in-hand. [Behind Fiora, the remaining party members begin to get to their feet.] Fiora You will never get away with this! Dickson Is that right? [Dickson morphs his blade into a cannon.] Dickson Then what are you gonna do about it in that feeble body?! [Dickson fires off shots at Fiora, which she struggles to block with her blades. The force of the attacks knocks Fiora to the ground as she loses her grip on one of the blades. Shulk runs over to her; Dickson cackles.] Dickson That body doesn't have a Monado anymore. Who knows how much life it's got in it? Better say your goodbyes! [Dickson changes his cannon back into a sword again. Shulk cradles Fiora's head in his lap.] Shulk It can't be! Fiora I'm fine. [Breathing heavily, Fiora staggers back to her feet.] Fiora I'll carry on fighting beside you until the very end. Shulk Fiora! Dickson Well then, we'd better make this quick! [Dickson leaps high into the air, then brings his sword down on the pair. Shulk blocks with the Replica Monado, but the force of the attack makes him slide backwards; Fiora is knocked to the ground behind him. Shulk's and Dickson's blades lock.] Dickson What's that? Little boy lost his Monado and can't do a thing without it?! Fiora Be careful! Dickson Well you can't! It's time to learn your place! [Dickson rears back again, but Melia shoots him with a blast of ether energy right to the face. Dickson recoils, nursing his hurting face.] Fiora Melia! [Melia hobbles forward, leaning on her staff.] Melia Stand up, Fiora! Did you not say that you wanted to be with Shulk?! Do not throw your life away for this scoundrel! Sharla She's right! You have to take what you want! There's no point in dying! [Sharla takes aim with her rifle and fires on Dickson, who takes the shot on his raised forearm.] Dickson You're nothing! [Dickson swoops in to attack Sharla with his blade, but Reyn blocks him with his shield.] Reyn Shulk! Show him what you're made of! Come on, man! You don't need the Monado to take down this piece of scum! [Reyn dashes out of the way of a follow-up attack from Dickson. Riki then runs up to Shulk.] Riki Riki know! Riki know Shulk brave! Riki want to see the old Shulk! Shulk is real Heropon! [Dunban leaps in front of Shulk, Fiora and Riki.] Dunban Shulk! [Dunban proceeds to block a sword attack by Dickson meant for the other three.] Dunban Real power comes from within! Believe in your own true strength, Shulk! Shulk Everyone... [Dickson fights off Dunban, then has to deal with Reyn attacking from behind.] Fiora Shulk. It's time, Shulk. Let's finish this. [Fiora's chest component begins to glow red with power.] Shulk I will not fail. With your faith in me, and our strength combined... [Shulk rises.] Shulk We can do this. Dickson You ever gonna make this worth my while? [Dickson turns from the five party members he's just fought down to face Fiora, glowing red with the power of Meyneth's Monado, and Shulk, glowing blue with the power of Zanza's Monado. The pair steadily approach Dickson.] Dickson Can't be. That power?! [Dickson shakes off the thought, then springs at Shulk and Fiora.] [The last battle does not avail Zanza's disciple. With Fiora levitating above Shulk in her Mechon armour, she powers up her Monado as Shulk charges. A ring of powerful energy goes out from Fiora, and Shulk's sword is charged with light as he leaps into the air. Both shout battle cries, but Dickson screams as Shulk's Replica Monado carves a glowing green gash across his chest. Dickson falls over backwards.] Dickson How is it possible without the Monado? Shulk Face me. Stand and fight! Dickson Still got some fight in ya then? [Dickson stands.] Dickson I'm done. I'm going home. [Dickson starts reverting back to his familiar Homs form.] Shulk Dickson! [Dickson begins walking off.] Dickson I just wanted the power of a god. This martyr stuff's not for me. [Shulk's party watch Dickson in disbelief.] Dickson Go. I ain't gonna risk my life to stop you. Reyn Get back here! You expect us to let you go?! [Shulk puts a hand on Reyn's chest.] Reyn What? Shulk Enough. It's Zanza we're after. Not him. [Fiora walks up behind Reyn and gives him a look.] Reyn OK... [A transporter has appeared behind the heroes. They turn to walk towards it, Dunban being the last to do so. Dickson sits down against the back wall of the terrace and lights up a cigar as he watches them go. He takes a final puff.] Dickson Damn. How'd that kid get so strong? I ain't gonna let you see me die. I won't give you the satisfaction of victory. See ya, kid. [Momentary flashback to Shulk asleep as a child at Ose Tower.] Dickson Looks like the student finally surpassed the teacher. [Shulk and Fiora walk up to the transporter that will take them to Zanza.] Fiora Shulk, his wounds... [Shulk, head bowed, closes his eyes. Behind them, on the opposite side of Prison Terrace, Dickson's head slumps forward and the cigar falls out of his mouth onto the stone floor. Shulk seems to shed a tear as the view closes in on Dickson's dead body, and the screen fades to white.] [Meanwhile in Memory Space, where Alvis previously met with Shulk, Zanza now meditates, still holding both Monados. The god sees visions.] [In one vision, the Telethia continue their assault on Colony 6.] [Another vision shows a Telethia hunting down and killing a colony resident.] [The next vision shows the Bionis alone in the endless sea, seeming to wait.] [The last vision shows Zanza being confronted by Shulk and his companions. In this vision, Zanza slashes forward with his Monado, creating a maelstrom of light that closes in on the party members. Before he can see if this light consumes them or not, the vision is abruptly cut off.] [Back in the present, Zanza opens his eyes.] Zanza Why? Why can I not see any further? Now that I possess both Monados, I should be at one with the passage of fate. Why does the vision end here? [Something, unseen, grabs Zanza's attention.] Zanza So Dickson has passed. Lorithia too. How can this be? Are Telethia growing weak? How could they be defeated by such worthless mortals? Meyneth [V.O.] This world belongs to you all. Create a world with no need for gods. Zanza A world that has no need for gods? There is no world without a god. This world belongs to me! [At this, bright light surrounds Zanza, and he begins to change.] [Meanwhile, Shulk's party have also arrived in this strange space, albeit a distance away from Zanza yet. They don't seem to be standing on any visible ground. Asteroids float past them in the vast star field.] Reyn Where are we?! Riki What happen?! It night-time! Is Riki have bad dream?! Fiora Look down! Look at all the stars! Shulk We're not on Bionis any more. There's no land or sea either. [The party study the strange path ahead in Memory Space. A trail of red light leads to a transporter of green light in the distance. The group's journey takes them beyond Saturn, Jupiter, Mars and the Moon, as well as past the Spirits of fallen foes. Finally, at Sentient Genesis, the party can see a planet of green and blue.] Fiora It's beautiful. Shulk Is that a ball of water? Alvis [V.O.] So, you finally made it, Shulk. [Shulk gasps and looks around.] Shulk It's you! Fiora What is it, Shulk? Alvis [V.O.] I cannot wait to see which path you choose. Let us meet again after you have made your choice. [A light shimmers in the distance and transforms the space where the party stand into what appears to be a fiery vortex. Into this place descends Zanza, now clad in a helmet and battle armour reminiscent of Bionis, though elements of Mechonis are also present. Zanza's Monado glows blue in his right hand, while Meyneth's Monado glows red in his left hand.] Zanza Welcome, Shulk. Shulk That voice! It's Zanza! Fiora But he looks different. Zanza I had planned to use the body obtained from Shulk as a vessel in which to dwell for the next millennium. However, I came to possess a great and unexpected power. Shulk Meyneth's Monado. Zanza Correct. In addition to my own Monado, which you kept safe for me, I was able to obtain a second weapon which holds the power of creation. Now I possess all I desire. [Zanza swings Meyneth's Monado, sending out a shockwave towards the party.] Zanza There is no longer any need for the life of Bionis. [Shulk activates his Replica Monado as the rest of the party draw their weapons as well.] Zanza I must thank you indeed, Shulk. You were of more use to me than any of my disciples. Now that I have the Monados, I can forgive you your betrayal. [Reyn scoffs.] Reyn You gonna give him a reward? Zanza Precisely. I will have him serve as my new disciple. You will be granted eternal life and unimaginable strength. Death will be but a fleeting afterthought. Melia Are you so arrogant to believe that the High Entia, no, all life on Bionis, are nothing but your playthings?! Zanza Playthings? Melia Yes. You don't know how it feels to have slain my brethren after they had transformed into Telethia! Zanza What are you talking about? A Telethia is a High Entia's true form. I did not transform them, I returned them. The Telethia are mere cells from my body. I conferred intelligence upon them on a mistaken whim, creating a primitive life form - the High Entia. [Melia scowls at Zanza.] Zanza They enjoyed a brief existence as sentient beings. For that they should be grateful. Dunban So this is the arrogance of a creator. Zanza As I planned, the life of Bionis existed simply to serve as my vessels and my food. Bionis is nothing more than an accumulation of their corpses and life energy. Dunban But though you feign omnipotence, the High Entia still confined you to Prison Island! That is how limited you are. Zanza Confined me? I was merely... resting there for a while. [Flashback to the ancient duel between the Bionis and the Mechonis.] Zanza I was wounded in the battle with Meyneth's vessel. [Flashback to Zanza, in Arglas' body, shackled at Prison Island.] Zanza I simply awaited the day when a new vessel, revealed to me in a vision, would be born. [Back to the present.] Shulk Until I was born. Zanza Precisely. I intended to inhabit your body and once again do battle with Meyneth. However, I had no idea that I would defeat her so easily. Fiora Meyneth... [Zanza suddenly stretches out his Monado, pointing it in Shulk's face.] Zanza You did a great deed in granting me a new Monado. I will gladly take you as my new disciple, Shulk. Shulk Never! I don't wanna be your vessel or your disciple! [Shulk extends the Replica Monado, now pointing it in Zanza's face.] Shulk I just want to live my life as a Homs. In a world without you! Zanza That is most regrettable. You could have entrusted all to me and attained peace. But perhaps the vision of mortals will ever remain limited. Using one's power to change the world. That is a right possessed only by gods. Shulk Is that why you laid waste to Mechonis?! Zanza Of course. Along with the beings called Machina, who followed Meyneth. They had evolved and become insolent under her protection. Reyn So you're saying us Homs are next in line, eh? Zanza You are correct. You yourselves have proven that Homs are a dangerous species. How unfortunate. I had a desire for friendship. But granting intelligence to the lives I created was a mistake. A god should not long for friendship. Shulk You're wrong! [Shulk slashes Zanza's Monado out of his way.] Shulk Meyneth chose to exist alongside us! She grew to consider us her friends. You should have accepted that! But what you were hoping for was not friendship. You wanted worthless slaves. Our lives as food! Zanza Just as I suspected. It appears that I was mistaken to grant free will. However, all will soon be over. The Telethia will exterminate all life on Bionis. I will then create a new world! Just as I have done many times before! [Zanza makes a grand gesture of slashing both Monados outwards.] Shulk We will not allow it! We cannot! We will stop you! [Shulk's party engage in battle with their creator.] [When his creations refuse to die, Zanza halts the battle.] Zanza You mere vessels dare to oppose the will of a god?! Then I shall obliterate everything with my unimaginable power! [Zanza brings together both Monados, and the screen fades to white with the ensuing transformation. Zanza soon emerges in a massive new battle armour, appearing as the complete fusion of both Bionis and Mechonis. Both Monados have likewise grown in power.] Zanza Now, behold the true form of a united world! [Battle is enjoined again.] [Again, Zanza is unable to get the better of Shulk and his friends.] Zanza How? How can you have visions?! You no longer possess the Monado! [Shulk and Fiora charge at Zanza, the former speaking as they attack.] Shulk I don't know. It comes from the bottom of my heart. It shows me my enemy. It reveals the future I must change! [Zanza furiously fights off the pair.] Fiora The future we see is not set in stone. There are infinite possibilities based on the paths we choose. You should be well aware of this notion. For that is how you have always existed! Zanza That is a right for gods and gods only! [Zanza makes a mighty double slash at Fiora, but she leaps out of the way. Shulk leaps in to attack Zanza from behind.] Shulk Why should we care?! [Shulk's Back Slash connects, causing Zanza to rear back in pain and throw Shulk off; Shulk roars a battle cry and does not initially land.] Shulk What's important isn't whether you can see the future or not. It's the will to make a choice, and the strength to seize your destiny! Our time has come. Our destiny is our own! [Shulk's eyes light up, and he receives power from Fiora's chest component, Dunban's sword, Reyn's driver, Melia's staff, Sharla's rifle, Riki's biter - five beams of blue light converge with Fiora's red beam to power up Shulk in their centre, high above the group. Shulk lands wielding a wholly new weapon - the True Monado.] Zanza Can it be? A Monado?! Fiora It is not only you that has the right. Every living thing has the freedom to choose the path they walk. And that is the future! Zanza A third Monado has appeared. How can this have happened?! You are mere mortals! [Thus the party engage Zanza in their final battle.] [At the end, Zanza's armour is torn asunder and he bleeds ether.] Zanza How? The power of a god cannot be overcome. Alvis [V.O.] Zanza. This is the providence of the world. [Zanza's Monado lights up, followed by Meyneth's Monado.] Alvis [V.O.] Even gods are merely beings restricted to the limited power determined by providence. That power, although great, is not unlimited. [As Alvis speaks, Shulk's True Monado lights up as well, and a line of light forms from it, connecting first to Meyneth's Monado, then to Zanza's Monado. All three Monados are linked, forming a triangle connecting Shulk and Zanza.] Shulk That voice! Zanza Alvis?! How dare you disobey me?! [Zanza shouts into the void.] Alvis [V.O.] I am Monado. I was here at the beginning. And I will proclaim the end. Zanza But that... that's impossible! Alvis [V.O.] Shulk, it is time for you to choose. Does this world belong to Zanza? Or does it belong to you? Shulk That is something I decided long ago! [Shulk raises the True Monado with a battle cry. In a burst of brilliant light, a new symbol appears on Shulk's Monado.] Zanza That symbol! Shulk Today, we use our power to fell a god, and then seize our destiny! [Shulk charges and leaps at Zanza, shouting as the True Monado slices through the god from top to bottom. Light bursts forth from Zanza's dying form.] Zanza All that I am is fading. The memory of a god's existence, born from the chaos of creation. It is vanishing. [The screen fades to white.] [In the aftermath, Shulk finds himself gazing at a space station in orbit around Planet Earth. A green light materialises next to him.] Shulk Where am I? Alvis This is my home. [Shulk looks over to the green light, Alvis' incorporeal form.] Shulk Your home? [Shulk hears a familiar voice from inside the facility.] Zanza [O.C.] Let's begin the experiment! Shulk Whose voice was that? Alvis It is Zanza. Before he became a god. When he was simply a man of flesh and blood. [Shulk can hear another familiar voice within the facility.] Meyneth [O.C.] No! The results have not been confirmed! [Inside the experiment facility, a wide window shows Earth. Crew members in white lab coats are working at consoles.] Meyneth It's too dangerous! [Meyneth runs up to Zanza at the main console; they are both human scientists wearing the same white lab coats as the rest of the crew.] Shulk [V.O.] And that voice. It's Meyneth! [Meyneth grabs Zanza's arm.] Zanza Ridiculous. It's perfectly safe. [Meyneth attempts to pull Zanza away, but he shoves her to the floor.] Zanza We are about to bear witness to the birth of a universe. [Zanza returns to the console and begins inputting a code.] Zanza Once, only a god could perform such a miracle. But today, mankind moves one step closer to the divine! Meyneth Stop! Klaus! [But it is too late. Klaus, who would later become known as Zanza, presses the activation key. A ball of blue light shoots along the ring encircling the planet below. Earth becomes covered in a great blue light, which first implodes into nothing, then expands outward, covering the universe in white light.] Alvis It was simple curiosity. The curiosity of a single man that destroyed the universe and created a new one. [As the light dissipates, Shulk finds himself on an endless sea cloaked in a boundless sky.] Alvis A new universe, your world, was born. [The two titans, the Bionis and the Mechonis, emerge from the sea.] Alvis And so, two gods came into existence. [On Bionis, Homs rise out of the green fields. Birds fly overhead.] Alvis Zanza and Meyneth were lonely. So they created life in their own image. [On Mechonis, Machina walk about in Agniratha.] Shulk And that was how we were born. Alvis As the world advanced to each further stage, [Aerial view of Colony 9.] Alvis it was inherited by generations of different life forms. [Aerial view of Agniratha.] Alvis But over time, awareness of Zanza faded. Zanza feared this. [View of Alcamoth over Eryth Sea.] Alvis In order to escape his own annihilation, [Aerial view of Alcamoth proper.] Alvis he wished for a world in a perpetual cycle of destruction and recreation. [Aerial view of Frontier Village.] Shulk Bionis being filled with life, and the Telethia coming to wipe it out. [View of a flock birds flying above the Bionis' Shoulder, who are then attacked by Telethia.] Shulk It was all the will of Zanza. Alvis It was. But the truth of the matter is that he longed for friendship. [The Mechonis' sword cuts into the Bionis' side. Shulk and Alvis watch the titans' ancient duel on the sea.] Shulk His future and our future. It might have been possible for them to coexist. Alvis Correct. However, that time has passed. [The Bionis in the present, now alone on the sea, recoils in its death throes, as light consumes it from within.] Alvis The old god was defeated by the new god that he himself created. Shulk New god?! Alvis Yes. That is why I appeared before you, Shulk. [Shulk turns to the green glowing light.] Shulk Alvis, what are you? Alvis I am the administrative computer of a phase transition experiment facility. But that will mean little to you. To you, I am a machine. That is my original form. Shulk Alvis? [Pieces of the Bionis fall off the titan as it begins to crumble.] Alvis This world is stagnant. It has expired. Therefore I will ask you, its new god. What is your wish? Will you allow the world to continue to stagnate? Or will you allow it to evolve to the next level? The choice is yours to make. Shulk I don't know. All I wanted to do was stop Zanza having his way. That's all. I cannot be a god! Reyn [O.C.] Too right! [Reyn comes up from behind and wraps an arm around Shulk.] Reyn You're great 'n' all, but there's no way you're a god. [The rest of Shulk's party come to him, walking on the sea.] Shulk Everyone! Fiora Look, don't worry, Shulk. None of us want to be gods anyway. And I don't really know what the future holds. But we just want to live our life as it comes. Reyn Eating grub, sleeping, laughing, crying. Sometimes arguing. Sounds all right! Sharla Yes. He's right. And being with the ones we love. That's enough. Melia Even so, we change little by little. Every day is a little different from the last. We do not know what the future will hold. Riki More fun not knowing! Riki want to have fun! Fiora Life's little surprises are what makes it great. We don't know what's going to happen. It's worrying sometimes, but it's also exciting. Don't you think? Dunban Yeah. Isn't that called progress? Aren't we all continuously evolving? I'm not sure we need a more dramatic change than that. Shulk Yeah. You're right. Little by little. Each day as it comes. That's how we should live. That's our world. [Light appears around Shulk, and so does the Monado in his hand.] Alvis Forgive my presumptuousness. But I recreated their personalities from your consciousness. [Around Alvis' original form rotate both Zanza's and Meyneth's Monados.] Shulk Alvis... It sounds like you don't think I can make my own decisions. I'm supposed to be the god! Alvis Apologies. However, I have good reason. This world has little time remaining if left in this state. Have you made your decision? The choice is yours, Creator. [Shulk nods.] Alvis Tell me your decision for the future of this world. Shulk I won't decide. The future should be decided by each and every person in the world. And so, what I... No, what we wish for is... [Shulk throws the True Monado upwards to the other two Monados.] Shulk A world with no gods! [The three Monados fuse, and the Bionis and the sea around it are consumed in a brilliant light. Cracks then appear in the fabric of the world, and so the current universe implodes. From it comes a Big Bang, scattering stars outward. Galaxies come into being.]  [A long time later, in what appears to be Colony 9, we see from the viewpoint of one walking through the colony. In addition to Homs, there are also many High Entia, Nopon and Machina about. A Homs woman takes her two children by either hand. A Machina couple passes by, one of them waving at us as they go. At a shop, a customer attempts to barter with a shopkeeper.] Shop What are you talking about? Colony 9 Resident Well, can I have it any cheaper? [A Homs woman greets us as we continue through the Commercial District.] Colony 9 Resident Hi, how are you? [Down the street, near an inert mobile artillery, Colonel Vangarre yells at a hapless soldier.] Vangarre You idiot! Are you tryin' to kill me?! Defence Force Soldier I'm really sorry, Colonel! Vangarre Sorry? What do you mean, sorry?! [Nearby, a team of four Nopon carry a beam of wood up the street as Chief Dunga and others continue to watch the scene in front of them unfold.] Vangarre Squat jumps around the entire colony! Fifty laps! Now! Defence Force Soldier Please! Colonel! [From our point of view, we approach Dunban in the midst of preparations.] Dunban Ah, yes. That's excellent. So, you can take the materials to District Four? [After an Ardun passes out of our view, we can see Dunban in talks with Otharon, Miqol and Vanea near the Ether Light.] Otharon The restoration's coming along nicely. Dunban Thanks to Melia and Vanea. The High Entia and Machina have some amazing technology. Vanea We are happy to help. To live alongside one another in harmony. After all, I have no doubt. This is what Lady Meyneth and Egil would have wanted. Dunban Hear, hear. And may it last forever. Fiora [O.C.] Dunban? [Dunban turns to us, and so revealing that we've been seeing this trip from Fiora's perspective.] Dunban Fiora! What is it? Fiora [O.C.] Have you seen Shulk? Dunban He just left. I don't know where he's gone, but he was with Reyn and the others. Fiora [O.C.] OK. Thank you. [We see as Fiora turns to leave.] Dunban Fiora! [The view shifts back to Dunban and the others as Fiora turns her head again.] Fiora [O.C.] Yes? [Dunban hesitates.] Dunban It's nothing. Good luck! [Next, we see as Fiora arrives at Outlook Park. There, she finds Melia alone, looking out across Colony 9. Instead of being on a lake in the midst of a canyon as before, the colony now sits on a sea, across from which a range of mountains can be seen.] Melia If you're looking for Shulk, he is not here. [Melia then turns to face us.] Fiora [O.C.] Amazing. It's like you've got eyes in the back of your head. What were you looking at? The sea? Melia I wasn't looking at anything in particular. [Melia turns back to her view.] Melia If anything, Fiora, I was thinking. Thinking about the future that awaits us all. Fiora [O.C.] Wow. You're so much more thoughtful than me. [We see Melia's side profile as Fiora comes up alongside her.] Melia Really? I don't think so. I was just answering your question. [The view goes up and down as Fiora nods.] Fiora [O.C.] But I know what you mean. You're right. We've been through a lot. Melia Yes. We have. [We get a view of the colony as Fiora looks out at it.] Melia I am grateful to all of you. [We turn back to Melia.] Melia It is because I met you that I experienced so much. And it is the reason I am here now. Fiora [O.C.] Yes. [More nodding from Fiora.] Fiora [O.C.] We're happy you're here too. Thanks, Melia. For everything. I'm glad I met you. [Melia gives a curt nod.] Melia And I you. [Melia looks to the sky, and so does Fiora.] [Soon, we arrive with Fiora near a pier on the shore, where Reyn attempts to reel in a fish as Sharla, Juju and Riki look on.] Reyn Almost got it! Riki Go Reyn! Go Reyn! Riki really hungry! Sharla Go on! Put your back into it, Reyn! [But Reyn pulls too hard, loses the fish, and then he, Juju and Riki fall into the water.] Sharla Are you OK?! [Reyn comes up coughing and sputtering. The three wade to the shore, where Sharla meets them.] Reyn It's salty! What's up with the water being so salty?! Juju Reyn, you're terrible at this! When was the last time you fished? [Sharla just laughs.] Riki Reyn bad fisherman! Riki want eat big fish! Reyn Give us a break. You try next time, furball! Riki Fishing is Reyn's job! Riki's job is eating! [Reyn groans.] Reyn Hang on a sec. Isn't Oka gonna have a massive go at you if you don't go back to her with 14 fish to feed all your littlepon? [Riki yelps in realisation.] Riki Riki forgot! Wifeypon very angry if not catch more fish! Reyn It ain't me she's gonna be angry with. Riki Reyn catch fish! [Riki leaps on Reyn's head.] Riki Catch fish now! Fish! Fish! [Reyn and Riki fall back into the water, with Sharla giving them a push. Then our perspective moves as Fiora looks up the shore, to see Shulk standing alone. She walks up to him on the sand.] Fiora [O.C.] Here you are! [Shulk turns to face us, a slight wind ruffling his hair.] Fiora [O.C.] The breeze feels so good. [Shulk turns back to the sea and nods.] Shulk It does. [At last, the view pans out, and we see Fiora for the first time, now back in her original Homs body and clothing. She looks just the same as she did before, except she's retained her short hair length from her time in the Mechon body. Fiora and Shulk stand side by side; he gives her a once-over.] Fiora What is it? [Shulk stammers.] Shulk That hairstyle. It looks good on you. That's all. Yeah. Fiora Really? I was thinking about growing it out, but... Hey, which do you prefer? Shulk Both, of course. Fiora Come on. [Fiora sits down on the sand.] Fiora What am I supposed to say to that? Shulk Sorry. [Shulk sits down next to her.] Shulk OK. It's great like that. Don't change it. [Fiora sighs.] Fiora I'd forgotten what it feels like to do this. [The view shifts to Sharla, Juju, Reyn and Riki talking on the beach.] Fiora I wonder what the future has in store for us. Shulk Who knows. [The view returns to Shulk and Fiora.] Shulk I'm sure it will be full of ups and downs. Fiora Ups and downs? [Now Juju casts a line as the three with him watch.] Shulk I don't know what the future holds. But that means I can imagine the possibilities. We can achieve anything we put our minds to. [Juju catches a fish and his companions react to the catch as the view returns to Shulk and Fiora again.] Fiora Yeah. You're right! Shulk Do you remember what the Monado, I mean Alvis, said to us the last time we saw him? Fiora Yes. Of course. [Flashback to Alvis, in his appearance as a Homs.] Alvis Shulk. This new world is boundless. It is home to not only you, but many forms of life. I can see it. [The view zooms in on Alvis' right eye, inside of the pupil of which can be glimpsed the cosmos.] Alvis In this world, all life will walk towards the future hand in hand. [Back in the present, Shulk shields his eyes from the sun as he looks up.] Shulk One day I hope I can meet them all. The people of this endless world. Fiora Me too. We will. I know it. [Shulk nods and stands up.] Shulk We'll meet them. [Fiora stands to join him.] Shulk And whatever happens, we'll face our future together. [The view zooms out, high above Shulk and Fiora, Reyn and the others, and all of Colony 9, to show the mountains across the water, which are the remains of the Bionis, whose head and five digits are all that are visible above the surface of the sea.] [Staff Credits roll.] [Sometime after the destruction of the Mechonis and the retreat of Zanza and his disciples into the Bionis' Interior, Shulk and his companions find a collapsed High Entia outside Colony 6.] Shulk Who's this?! Reyn Ain't she the one who attacked us in the capital? [The High Entia in question, Tyrea, lifts her head to face the group.] Tyrea You! Melia Tyrea! [Melia kneels beside Tyrea.] Melia What are you doing here?! You're hurt. Tyrea Do not touch me! Vile girl! Reyn Watch it! [With a groan, Tyrea falls back, unconscious.] Reyn Oh! Melia Tyrea. What happened? Reyn Is she dead? Melia No. It looks like she's just passed out. Sharla Let's get her to the infirmary. Reyn! Reyn Come on, why me? Melia Please. [The party carry Tyrea to Junks for medical treatment.] Dunban Is she OK? Sharla Her injuries aren't severe. Melia When the Bionis awoke, the ether flow around the colony became unstable. Maybe that's why she lost consciousness. Dunban No. That's not what I meant. Sharla You mean why didn't she become a Telethia? Dunban Precisely. Melia For pure-blooded High Entia to become Telethia, the ether energy surrounding the Bionis has to be above a certain level. Luckily, the level of ether energy here is not as high as on the upper regions of Bionis. That may be what kept her safe. [Melia pauses.] Melia Or perhaps... Shulk Perhaps what? Melia No, it's nothing. Dunban Something about this makes me feel uneasy. Sharla I know what you mean. We'll have to keep an eye on her recovery. Fiora Why does she hate you so much, Melia? You're both High Entia. Is being pure-blooded really that important? Melia Tyrea's birth mother is most likely my step-mother. Sharla You don't mean...Yumea? Melia Yes. I heard about it from Kallian after I returned from the tomb. Mother was leader of the Inquisitors, a secretive organisation operating in the shadows of the imperial household. The group plotted to maintain the imperial bloodline through a clandestine ritual - a ritual where Tyrea was conceived. Shulk And she was secretly raised as an Inquisitor assassin. Reyn Hold on a sec. Are you saying that Tyrea is Kallian's half-sister? Melia That's right. Sharla Then isn't she in the same position as you? Melia Mm-hmm. Tyrea That is correct. Melia Tyrea! You're awake! [Tyrea struggles to sit up in bed.] Tyrea I had more right to the throne than she ever did! Were it not for the consort system that has so polluted the pride of our people... It would have been me, a pure-blooded High Entia, who would build the future of our people! But you...! [Melia inhales sharply.] Tyrea You are a hypocrite, just like me. If we are honest, what is the difference? You, too, would take the lives of your own people to protect your bloodline. Melia, you too are nothing but an assassin! [Tyrea laughs cruelly.] Melia You're wrong! I'm...! Reyn I don't buy that for a second! Melia Reyn?! Reyn Pride of your people?! How about you're jealous of Melia! Tyrea Do you really think I would be jealous of her?! Reyn Ain't ya? You're envious of her, right? Of how she lives her life. You just want everyone to feel sorry for you for being in the shadows all your life. Tyrea How dare you?! No Homs speaks to me like that! Reyn I'm sayin' that you'll never have a life like Melia's! [Tyrea turns away.] Reyn You don't have the faintest idea why Melia's been fighting. Even if you'd been born in her place, the Emperor still would've chosen her as his successor. Succeeding the imperial line ain't all about blood. It's about takin' on the will to do whatever it takes for your land, for your people, when the time comes. That's what makes Melia different from you! Tyrea How dare you! Dunban Both of you, stop this! This is no time for pointless bickering. Sharla He's right. We survivors shouldn't be fighting amongst ourselves. [Sharla comes to a decision.] Sharla Right, time's up! I want the room cleared out. Reyn Yeah, OK... Sharla [to Tyrea] And you. You need to calm down and get some rest. Tyrea Grr. [Later that night, Tyrea sneaks out of Junks and exits Colony 6.] Tyrea Me? Envious? I only think of my people. [Tyrea sees something ahead and gasps. Near the Pod Depot is a cloud of glowing ether energy.] Tyrea What is that? [As Tyrea walks up to it and closes her eyes, a Mysterious Telethia materialises in front of her.] Tyrea *whimper* [More ether lights up the area around the Pod Depot.] [The next morning, the roar of a Telethia can heard in Colony 6. Shulk's party rush out of Junks onto the deck.] Dunban What's going on?! [They hear a noise not far away.] Fiora Look! Over there! [Reconstruction HQ is among the burning buildings in Colony 6.] Fiora The colony! [They then see the Mysterious Telethia attacking the HQ.] Shulk Telethia! [As the Telethia flies away, Sharla catches up to the group.] Sharla Guys! She's gone! Reyn Tyrea, you mean?! Shulk Could that Telethia be her?! Melia No. At least, I'm fairly certain. Shulk What? Melia There's no time now. [Melia turns to face Shulk and the others.] Melia We must pursue it. [The party look for a Telethia in the same spot as a past Telethia battle in Makna Forest. At Lakeside, they find the Mysterious Telethia, which roars at them as they arrive.] Melia It must be Tyrea after all! Fiora What do we do?! Do we have to fight her? Dunban There's no time to think about it. Ready yourselves! [The party defeat the Mysterious Telethia, which writhes on the ground afterwards. Shulk approaches it.] Melia Shulk, I must... [Melia steps forward.] Shulk I know. [Melia brings her hands together and begins summoning the ether attack that will put the Telethia out of its misery.] Tyrea [O.C.] Stop! [Melia turns to find Tyrea approaching.] Melia Tyrea! You're safe? Tyrea You do realise? That Telethia is Yumea. Melia *gasp* Shulk Yumea?! Tyrea I was pursuing Yumea. Even though she knew it was her fate to transform, she remained faithful to the Bionis. Shulk But why? Didn't she feel betrayed? Tyrea Everyone has their own beliefs. And what they believe is their own choice. Yumea adhered to her path. I pursued her so that I could fulfil her final wish. Sharla Her final wish? Tyrea Yumea was imprisoned within the Tower of Investigation. She told me that after she transformed into a Telethia, I was to destroy her as quickly as possible. She wished to sacrifice herself to the Bionis... At least, that is what I believed at first. But I now understand Yumea's true desire. That is why I must...! [Tyrea begins her own ether attack.] Melia This is my responsibility. [Tyrea cuts off the ether summons.] Tyrea Melia, why? Melia Father entrusted me with the empire and its people. What I believe in is the will of those struggling to survive. I have to fight if I am to convey this to the next generation. Besides, Yumea is your birth mother. [Melia turns away from Tyrea to face the doomed Telethia.] Melia There is no need for you to carry out such an unpleasant task. [Tyrea stands with her head bowed.] Tyrea Is the same not true of you? You may not be of her blood but you still think of her as your... Melia This is a duty that my father and brother conferred upon me. Tyrea Melia... [Melia summons her ether attack and fires it at the Telethia that was once First Consort Yumea. The creature then dissolves in a burst of green light. Melia turns to Tyrea.] Melia Tyrea... I believe you and I are alike. Tyrea Alike? Never! Vile girl! [Tyrea begins to walk off, then stops.] Tyrea My gratitude for assisting Yumea. I mean...Mother. [Tyrea then uses the large wings on her head to fly off.] Melia Tyrea... [The group turn to look at Tyrea's departure.] Reyn Well, there she goes. Sharla Is she going to be OK on her own? Dunban She'll be all right. We and Tyrea share the same goal. Our paths are sure to meet again. Shulk Yeah, you're right. [Shulk turns to Melia.] Shulk Melia, what did you mean just now? When you said you and Tyrea are alike. Melia Tyrea must be half Homs, just like me. Reyn What?! But the wings on her head... Melia Not all half-blooded High Entia have small wings, only the majority. Some are indistinguishable from pure-blooded High Entia. Sharla Dominant and recessive inheritance. I've studied this. Shulk So that's why... Fiora Melia, do you think Yumea knew this would happen? Melia Perhaps. [Melia begins to head back up the path, then stops.] Melia Actually, she had to have known. At least, that's what I believe. [Fiora comes up to Melia.] Fiora She was her mother, after all. She must have been aware. Melia Yes.