@Intro
Ike: That must be...
Titania: ...the Tower of Guidance. It's so bright I can hardly bear to look at it! What's happening in there?
Soren: Let's hurry, Ike. I can't imagine that the glowing is a good omen. We're running out of time.


Ike: The city gate is shut. I guess we'll have to force it to get to the tower--
???: Ahh! You guys made it!
Ike: Skrimir! I didn't realize your group had already arrived.
Skrimir: Yes, we've been here for quite some time. I've been itching to go inside and see what the bad guys have waiting for us.
Sanaki: Skrimir listened to reason, however, and agreed to wait here with us. We know nothing about the numbers or strength of the enemy.
Micaiah: It seemed safest to wait here for the rest of you to show up. We pitched tents outside the gate.
Ike: Hello, Micaiah. Any word from Yune?
Micaiah: She came back to me a number of times during our trip. But nothing for the past few days...
Ike: I see... Do we know where Tibarn and Elincia's group is?
Skrimir: No word yet, no. Ike, it's a waste for us to just sit around waiting. Why don't you and I have a look inside?

Skrimir: Wait! What's happening?
Naesala: Get ready for an attack, people!

Ike: Caineghis? What are you doing here?

Caineghis: In an occurrence I'm told is increasingly common, we heard a voice in our dreams and followed it here.
Ike: And Lord Tibarn! I should have guessed your group would beat everyone here.
Tibarn: We joined up with King Caineghis and mopped up the Disciples of Order around the capital.
Elincia: The only people left within the city are the ones who have been petrified.
Yune: Good! I like air-breathers with initiative!

Ike: Yune! Here to give us our next instructions?
Yune: Yes, good guess! Everyone, gather around. You'll all need to hear this.

Yune: Good job, everyone! All three teams got here, and a little faster than I thought you would. While you were traveling, I went around recruiting more help, including King Caineghis here. Unfortunately, it looks like Ashera had the same idea. By the time I made my way to Goldoa, there was no one there.
Kurthnaga: Wh-what do you mean? Where were they?
Tibarn: If you're saying what I think you're saying, then we could have a very big problem. Lots of very big problems.
Yune: I don't know for sure, Tibarn. There aren't a whole lot of dragons altogether, but... It looks like every one of them joined Ashera.
Kurthnaga: How...how could this be?
Yune: I haven't seen them anywhere else on Tellius, so they must already be inside the tower. Let's camp for the night before walking into Ashera's own home.

@Conversation
Stefan: ...What can I do for you, Goddess Yune?
Yune: You're very strange. What are you?
Stefan: That's a strange question, especially coming from you. Didn't you create all of us?
Yune: I didn't create anything. Not laguz nor beorc. But I know what they are, because I've watched them change and grow over time. You... You're not something I've seen before.
Stefan: I'm the same as the girl you dwell inside.
Yune: Ohhh... I thought Micaiah was the only one. She could hear my voice and sing the galdr of release. But I learned that others existed. There's that boy who's always with Ike. Or the little girl who stays by the queen of Crimea.
Stefan: There are several in my village, as well. They are my comrades. We all live under the safe fate...and carry the same curse in our blood.
Yune: When you say these words, what do they mean? Why are you cursed?
Stefan: It means that we carry the blood of both beorc and laguz. Beorc call us Branded, and laguz call us Parentless.
Yune: Does that mean your parents are beorc and laguz?
Stefan: Not always. It means that laguz and beorc mixed blood somewhere along the line. Beorc and laguz rarely associate in that way. For them to conceive a child together is an even rarer event. What's strange is that the child bears no laguz characteristics. It's just a normal beorc infant. However, the laguz blood lies asleep, waiting, in the child's veins.
Yune: Oh...
Stefan: One day, the laguz blood shows itself, marking the child's body with a brand. How old is that girl, hmm? I don't think she's as young as she looks. The other curse is that we age differently from beorc. It depends on what laguz blood the child has, but it always slows how fast we age.
Yune: Micaiah says that's true. She's listening to every word you say. Please, continue.
Stefan: The laguz blood gives the Branded unnatural powers. Beorc fear and distrust us because they can't understand those abilities. The laguz are even worse. They treat us like we're phantoms, refusing to acknowledge us, as if we don't exist.
Yune: I see...
Stefan: It's easy to hide among beorcs. You just cover the brand, avoid getting close to anyone, and never settle down. Pretending you're normal. The laguz are different. They can sense what we are... They have an instinct for it. Not all laguz know for sure, but the sharp ones figure it out instantly. Others just feel uneasy around us. Some never figure it out, but they're surrounded by ones who do. Either way, the laguz would never talk to us voluntarily. Why would you pay attention to someone who doesn't even exist?
Yune: Why? That doesn't make any sense. How did things get like that?
Stefan: I would like to know that as well. It's said that a union between laguz and beorc is a crime against the goddess. That's what we've always been told.
Yune: That's silly. I've never heard anything of the sort.
Stefan: ...Heh... Heheh... Hahahahaha...!
Yune: Why are you laughing?
Stefan: It's all been a lie! For hundreds of years, we've faced persecution, abuse, and isolation. And for what? A lie! What's not to laugh about, huh? Hahaha... 
Yune: What's happened? This is all wrong... How did history get so distorted? Was it at a particular place and time? I don't understand. I've been asleep for too long...

Kurthnaga: Almedha! You're safe!
Almedha: Kurthnaga...
Kurthnaga: Al, what's wrong? You're so pale, and you've grown so thin...
Almedha: Oh, Pelleas... My little Pelleas... Why? Tell me why?
Kurthnaga: Almedha! Almedha, you have to pull yourself together!
???: Prince Kurth? Are you there?
Kurthnaga: I'm busy, Ena! Stay where you are.
Ena: Oh!
Almedha: ...Ena. It's been a long time. I felt your presence nearby, but you never came to see me...
Ena: Lady Almedha...
Almedha: I understand that you don't want to see me. I'm sure you hate me for what I've done. My brother Rajaion... Your betrothed... He died because of me.
Ena: Don't. It's not important. That's all in the past...
Almedha: ...What? How can you pretend like nothing happened!? You can't! I know you hate me! You have to hate me! Go ahead, blame me for what happened! Insult me! Do anything, but you have to hate me!
Ena: ...I don't hate you, Almedha. Rajaion made his decision. He gave his life to save you and his little nephew. Did you know that? He decided to sacrifice himself to protect you. I can't blame you for what Rajaion decided to do. That would mean insulting my beloved for his sacrifice... For his nobility.
Almedha: Sniff... Sniff... Sniff...
Ena: Prince Kurth, my grandfather is here to see you. The king knows nothing of this visit.
Kurthnaga: Nasir is here?
Nasir: Prince Kurthnaga. I am glad to see that you are safe. And Lady Almedha, as well. It has been a long time. We haven't seen each other in over ninety years, I believe.
Almedha: Nasir.... You returned to Goldoa?
Nasir: Yes.
Kurthnaga: Nasir, I need to know something. Why has Goldoa sided with Goddess Ashera!? What is Father thinking? The laguz and beorc have joined together to save the petrified. Why hasn't Goldoa joined the effort?
Nasir: As you wish. Lady Almedha... Are you aware of the fact that everything that's happening is due to your decision to leave Goldoa?
Almedha: ...What?
Kurthnaga: Explain, Nasir.
Nasir: King Dheginsea forbade the dragon tribe to use our transformation for the purpose of war. Almedha, you left because you did not agree with this policy, did you not?
Almedha: That's right.
Nasir: Shortly after you left Goldoa, you met Ashnard in Daein and were united with him. However, your union begat a chain of tragedies. Did you know that the red dragon platoon which went in search of you was captured and turned into Feral Ones by King Ashnard?
Almedha: I-I had no idea.
Nasir: Ashnard needed Goldoa to get involved in his war. That's why he did everything in his power to provoke King Dheginsea. Most of you have never fought in a war, but even more than other laguz, the dragon tribe loses control once they taste battle.
Kurthnaga: Oh...
Nasir: Near the end of the war, we found out that Prince Rajaion could not be saved. I thought the king would surely go on a rampage. At the time, we had no idea that Lady Almedha was still alive. The king thought he'd lost not only dragon soldiers but also his children.
Ena: ...
Nasir: If the war had ended any later... Had Ike not killed Ashnard... Goldoa would have joined the war. And we would have started killing. We would have destroyed the Daein army, it's coconspirators, everyone. We would not have stopped until the continent was ashes. Then the spirit of chaos would have spread across Tellius, awakening the goddess and destroying the dragon tribe. That was the danger we faced in the Mad King's War.
Kurthnaga: ...
Ena: But Ashnard was defeated. And Rajaion regained his sanity thanks to the songs of the heron clan.
Almedha: ...Sniff. Bwuah... Sniff...
Nasir: We escaped annihilation once. We took Prince Rajaion's body back to Goldoa. And the king did not shed a tear, nor fly into a rage. He endured his loss by himself. He endured for the sake of his last child, and for the sake of his people. Goldoa remained neutral.
Kurthnaga: Father...
Nasir: But now... All that effort has been wasted. The war between the Laguz Alliance and Begnion has spread through Daein and Crimea. And to top it all off, Goldoa can no longer stay neutral because of what Prince Kurthnaga has done!
Kurthnaga: You're saying this is my fault...!? That I've started a war that my father tried to avoid?
Almedha: No, Kurthnaga! This was my fault. You fought because of me.
Ena: This was not Prince Kurth's fault! Besides, the goddess Yune was not awakened by chaos sweeping across Tellius. She was awakened by the galdr of release!
Nasir: By a galdr!? Are you certain?
Ena: Yes. That was what Sir Ike said.
Nasir: That's...very strange. Nevertheless, the end result remains the same. Goddess Ashera has rendered her judgment. The laguz and beorc must follow her decision.
Ena: What...!? Nasir!
Nasir: I've come here as a favor to the king. Prince Kurthnaga, you have to return to us. At once.
Kurthnaga: If we just accept Ashera's judgment, we'll all be turned to stone! That's the end of history as we know it! Do you expect me to just lie down and accept that? How can I? What you're asking is insanity! I won't do it.
Nasir: And you, Ena?
Ena: I feel the same as Prince Kurth.
Nasir: Then I have nothing more to say to you. However, I hope to avoid fighting my own people if at all possible. 
Ena: Nasir...
Almedha: ...What will you do on the battlefield, Kurth? Will you face your father as an enemy?
Kurthnaga: ...I will do whatever I have to.

@Intro
Yune: Oh, no!
Ike: Yune, what is it? What's happening?

Caineghis: This isn't good...
Yune: These soldiers... We've killed them already. They've been reborn in flesh but not spirit.
Sanaki: Brought back from the dead...
Elincia: A miracle of the goddess...
Caineghis: A blasphemy, you mean! How could the goddess of order violate the most fundamental natural law?
Ike: Philosophy later, everyone! They're about to attack!

Ike: Are you all right? Those dead soldiers really got to you, didn't they?
Yune: ...We can't win. All we do is kill the flesh, but she brings the flesh back... We need more time... No, there is no more time! Everyone else will be turned to stone...and I will be lonely forever. There's nothing more that I can do! I've failed... I've failed.
Ike: Yune! Get a hold of yourself!

Yune: Ouch! My ears!

Yune: Wh-what was that for? You big bully! Who do you think I am?!
Ike: Yune, the goddess of chaos... The warmhearted being whose courage and love gives us the will to go on.
Yune: Ike... Thank you.

Ike: As things stand, we can't bring everyone into the tower. We'll need support here to hold this position. But at the very least, how many are we going to need inside?
Yune: They'll have much stronger forces inside the tower...not to mention Ashera herself. We'll send in our best 11. Oh, and we'll want the two dragons! ...And one from the heron tribe... And...uh...the empress. Plus, it wouldn't hurt to have Sothe.
Ike: Understood. If that's everyone, I'll gather them together.

Yune: ...And once we get inside, you can leave most of the fighting to Micaiah.

Yune: Something like this should work.

Ike: We're ready.

Yune: All right, everyone's almost ready. Who would you like to bring from the heron tribe?

^start
Ike: Rafiel... Would you join us?
Rafiel: Of course. I am honored.

Ike: Reyson... Would you join us?
Reyson: Gladly. I'll give you everything I've got.

Ike: Leanne... Would you join us?
Leanne:  I...I do...best fighting!
^end

Yune: All right, Tower of Guidance, here we come!


Ike: It's...so quiet. Is the goddess here?
Yune: Uh-huh. She's at the top. Be careful, everyone. This tower is Ashera's home territory. She's certain to have her most powerful troops waiting for us up ahead. We must proceed with the utmost caution.
Yune: Hm?

@Flashback
Female Voice: So, you were companion to the very first empress, Altina. I am honored that you have chosen to speak with me.
Male Voice: You would trust in the word of a stranger?
Female Voice: Yes. I can see inside you. I know you cannot speak lies.
Male Voice: Is it possible? Do you share some aspect of my power?
Female Voice: I do, as did my mother... Generation after generation, each apostle has been blessed to hear the voice of the goddess. We know of impending disasters, how crops will fare.... All revelations originally intended for you.
Male Voice: The children of my union with Altina... I had no idea...
Female Voice: Please look at this.

Male Voice: That mark...
Female Voice: All of the apostles have born this brand. It is our greatest secret. The senators must never know. Because of this brand, I thought that I had been born of some great sin. It plagued me always. Guilt tore at me every day as I hid my mark from my people, deceiving them constantly about my true nature.
Male Voice: Oh, child...how can I apologize to you?
Female Voice: And yet, now that I've met you, I understand. There is no shame in my heritage. None at all. I will not live in hiding. I will reveal to the world that I am one of the Branded. They must see there is no shame in who I am.
Male Voice: No! You mustn't! You don't understand the danger you will be placing yourself in!
Female Voice: Oh, but I do. The senators will do their utmost to rally the people against me, as they did when I freed the laguz from slavery. But I will not be deterred. If I am to lead this nation, I cannot allow it to be corrupted by prejudice and hatred. I can put the life the goddess has given me to no greater good than this.
Male Voice: ...Such determination. Your eyes... They very much resemble Altina's.
Female Voice: I will stand before my people and proudly proclaim the truth. And then I will guide them to a just and honest future. This is my promise to you.
Male Voice: Thank you. Your strength of will, the truth that guides your life... You have shown me the way back to myself. I shall return to Goldoa and tell my friends of you and your actions. I will tell them that laguz and beorc may once again live together in peace. I will tell them that there is hope.
Female Voice: Thank you, father of my mothers. I strive to be worthy of the gift of live you have granted me.

@Intro
Yune: ...What was that? Someone's... Was it someone's memory?
Ike: What is it?
Yune: Sorry? Oh, I... Don't worry. It was nothing. All right, then... Our path leads through that door there.

Yune: ...


Lekain: Well, well... "Apostle" Sanaki. What a surprise seeing you here. Frankly, I'm amazed that you, of all people, would dare to set foot inside the most holy Tower of Guidance.
Micaiah: Lekain... We've been looking for you for a long time. You bound Daein to your awful pact, hounded noble King Pelleas, and stole countless lives in your appalling war. You are...beyond redemption!
Lekain: Beyond redemption? My, that does sound awful. Whatever will you do with me? Oh, and let me remind you, the blood pact is still in effect. You would do well to remember that. I think you know what will happen to the people of Daein if you should dare oppose me.
Micaiah: Enough. We fear your threats no longer. No more will we bow to your every whim. Now that we've found you, we will exact justice upon you, then destroy the blood pact itself, ending its power over us!
Lekain: So you figured it out, did you? Heh, heh... It matters not. This changes nothing, do you hear me? Here is the scroll for which you've been searching so diligently. Right here in my hands.
Micaiah: Ah!
Lekain: And yet, none of you will ever lay one grimy little finger upon it. I have been blessed by the goddess herself. Her protection will not allow you fleas to even approach me!
Sanaki: Lekain! Cease this travesty of virtue at once!
Lekain: What have we here? Oh yes, the apostle. Excuse me, child, but I had completely forgotten you were here. Since you've deigned to grace us with your exalted presence, dear apostle, let me share a bedtime story with you.

Lekain: The year was 640, Begnion era... The empire had been without an apostle for 15 long years. The senators were being constantly harassed with complaints from the people. There had been nothing like it in history. The voices calling for young Sanaki to be crowned grew louder every day... You had just turned five years old when the senate welcomed you to the throne as the new apostle. Ah, but my young mistress Sanaki, what a difficult child you were. You threw tantrums, you screamed and cried constantly. Your conduct was hardly befitting an empress of Begnion! Everyone was at a loss... You wouldn't even stop mewling and crying during official proceedings. But then along came our youngest senator ever, Sephiran, Duke of Persis. When he took you in his arms, you immediately stopped crying. You even smiled. We had to take advantage of this obvious miracle. In an unprecedented move by the senators, we elevated Sephiran to prime minister, keeping him serving as close to you as possible. This plan, radical as it was, proved far more effective than we dared dream. A young, handsome prime minister and an adorable moppet of an apostle brought the people's support to incredible new heights. Apparently the common citizenry is gullible enough to blindly follow any leader who is sufficiently attractive. Enamored as they were, no one ever seemed to care whether or not you could hear the voice of the goddess. With the new apostle and prime minister, the political landscape became unrecognizable. Even in the face of overtly unreasonable legislation, the two of you would stand on the balcony... A smile and a wave later, the people would cheer and go on with their happy lives.
Sanaki: ...
Lekain: It was too good to be true, however. Both of you were only meant to be puppets! Each year you interfered with our government more and more, imposing your soft-hearted ideals over our sovereign rights. Were such trivialities as laguz slavery and the Daein occupation worth making issues of? The pair of you were becoming an increasingly bothersome thorn in our side. And then this war against the laguz forces... You went so far as to expose our previous indiscretions and demand reparations for the sub-humans. This was unforgivable. Clearly you both had to be removed. Sephiran would be falsely accused and jailed, necessitating his removal from office. The apostle would suffer a sudden illness, and be excused from official proceedings. Or so we intended...

Lekain: And somehow, despite the extraordinary plans of great me, here you are standing before my very eyes.
Sanaki: If Sephiran and I hadn't been freed... You were just waiting for your chance to kill us? Just as you killed my grandmother.
Lekain: Out of respect for the imminently deceased, I'll be completely honest. Yes, you assume correctly. Your assassination, and the plot to once again frame the Serenes herons for it, was entirely my idea.
Sanaki: Yes... I thought as much.
Lekain: Impressive, Sanaki. When you were first crowned, you would have cried your little eyes out. You've grown, slightly.
Sanaki: Lekain, Duke of Gaddos! Before the 37th empress of Begnion... Prepare to be judged!

Lekain: An amusing game, child, truly. But you must know that there is nothing you can do against me! I am the greatest servant of the all-knowing, almighty Ashera. I am her chosen champion! And you, Sanaki, are a pathetic wretch, mewling behind her pack of Daein curs. Ashera's judgment is upon you! You will not live to be turned to stone... You will die here as flesh and blood!

@Battle
Lekain: Ta ha haaa! Bathe in my radiance!

@Boss
Hetzel: There can be no forgiveness for my hand in these evil deeds. Salvation is denied me and my stained soul. My torment will be eternal.

%Jill,Hetzel
Hetzel: I don't understand any of you. how can you oppose the goddess? It's only natural that people live to please the gods...the weak follow the strong.
Jill: Strong, weak... It doesn't matter. I fight on the side of my conscience, and have yet to regret my battles.

%Haar,Hetzel
Hetzel: Wait... I remember you... You were one of the dracoknights that fled to Daein, defying the senators... You opposed the almighty Begnion and the word of the goddess... Why? Why would you defy such power?
Haar: You could live another lifetime, and you'd still never understand.

%Sanaki,Hetzel
Sanaki: Hetzel... I had thought that you alone might be above Lekain's foul conspiracy! It saddens me to see you at his side.
Hetzel: N-no, Apostle Sanaki! I--
Sanaki: I didn't ask for excuses! ?You fight alongside Lekain. That's more proof than I'll ever need.
Hetzel: ...You are right, I fight with him. I had no choice. But...please, understand that I've always done my best to honor and respect Your Majesty.
Sanaki: Then how do you explain my confinement in Mainal Cathedral?
Hetzel: I-I didn't do anything! It was all Lekain! I didn't know anything about it, and only heard later...
Sanaki: And when you did hear of it, why didn't you stop it?
Hetzel: I...couldn't. Actually, I could have, but I...didn't say anything. It was the same with Misaha, and the Serenes Massacre... I...
Sanaki: ...didn't say anything. In other words, you stood by as my grandmother and the Serenes people were killed!
Hetzel: P-please forgive me...

%Rafiel,Hetzel 
Hetzel: Rafiel... Rafiel, I’m sorry.
Rafiel: ...
Hetzel: I did a horrible thing. I have lived in the shadow of my regret for many years now. Please tell me that you can find it in yourself to forgive me! Please...
Rafiel: I...
Hetzel: Rafiel... I was kind to you, was I not? I didn’t treat you like a slave! I always watched over you so kindly. Be kind in return and forgive me, Rafiel.
Rafiel: ...I’m sorry, I... I don’t have anything to say to you.
Hetzel: No! Rafiel...

%Nailah,Hetzel 
Nailah: So you’re Hetzel, huh? Rafiel told me about you.
Hetzel: That’s right... Yes... I’m... I’m the one who saved his life. He’s still alive because of me!
Nailah: Ancient history doesn’t change the fact that you’re fighting against him now. And if fight him, you fight me.

%Micaiah,Hetzel
Hetzel: It is not too late, child, to surrender and accept Ashera's grace. You can win favor in her eyes by abandoning her enemies.
Micaiah: Surrender? I wouldn't' dare "accept the grace" of a goddess that turns her worshippers to stone!
Hetzel: Some things simply can't be helped. You and I are alive, and we should be thankful for that.
Micaiah: I have a feeling that we're not going to be able to come to terms on this.

%Tibarn,Hetzel
Hetzel: L...Lord Lekain! Help! Help me!
Tibarn: As payment for taking care of Rafiel when I couldn’t, I’ll make this quick.

%Reyson,Hetzel
Hetzel: You look so much like Rafiel... Is there anything in the world so beautiful as a Serenes heron?
Reyson: I was born this way, and mere birth is not praiseworthy. Praise me instead for my strength. What I look like is irrelevant, so long as I have the power to protect my friends.

%Leanne,Hetzel
Hetzel: Oh! Oh my! A fair heron maiden. I thought they were all gone...
Leanne: ...
Hetzel: W-wait! Don’t run away. Don’t just run away!

%Oliver,Hetzel
Hetzel: D-Duke Tanas! You’ve betrayed us? But why?
Oliver: You could never understand the depth of my commitment to beauty! Sometimes it simply overwhelms me. I can’t stop the love welling up inside! I’d do anything to keep the hideous likes of you from my precious birds!

%Sigrun,Hetzel
Sigrun: Senator Hetzel! Do I understand correctly that you oppose Apostle Sanaki alongside Vice-Minster Lekain?
Hetzel: Th-that’s absurd! Vice-Minster Lekain oppose the apostle! I’m just... I’m just following orders!

%Tanith,Hetzel
Tanith: Senator Hetzel, Duke of Asmin! You are guilty of treason against our empress!
Hetzel: No! That’s a lie! I never did anything wrong...

%Astrid,Hetzel
Hetzel: Mortals cannot measure up to gods. Any child knows as much. Why do you not kneel before her?
Astrid: That would be throwing away my own beliefs to live a life of blind obedience. I stopped doing that three years ago, and I’ve never looked back.

%Ike,Hetzel
Hetzel: Wait, please... I never wanted to fight... I'm here only because I was ordered.
Ike: Then surrender your weapon.
Hetzel: I-I cannot do that. I would fall into disgrace with Vice-Minister Lekain.
Ike: ...

@Boss
Hetzel: Save me! My goddess... Help...

%Jill,Lekain
Lekain: Knight of Daein, I am Lekain of Gaddos. Your ruler, King Pelleas, will--
Jill: You can stop it right there! Daein will never bow down to you again!

%Haar,Lekain
Haar: Why is it that authority figures are always so unwilling to let go of their power? The world could flip upside down and you'd be trying to boss around gravity.
Lekain: You clearly know nothing of me, lout! To oppose me is to oppose the goddess Ashera herself!
Haar: That's strange... I always thought that role was filled by the apostle. But who can keep up these days? So you're defending the goddess...but will she do the same for you?

%Reyson,Lekain
Lekain: You're quite tenacious for a heron. I thought your entire fragile race had been exterminated...
Reyson: Evil... You are pure evil. I hear it in your heart. How do you even survive?
Lekain: How pathetic. Hated by a heron, the only sub-human so weak as to actually be incapable of violence. This must feel just like the massacre to you: completely helpless before your inevitable doom!

%Tibarn,Lekain
Tibarn: I'm glad I got to you first. See, I heard that the Serenes Massacre was all your doing... That puts you at the very top of the list of the enemies of the bird tribes.
Lekain: That may very well be, but I am under the divine protection of the goddess herself! A shabby sub-human pirate like yourself will find me quite invincible!
Tibarn: As much as I'd love to draw this little chat out, I don't think I can keep my talons out of your neck another instant.
Lekain: Why... Why are you laughing? Are you...enjoying yourself?
Tibarn: Some of us here are just overflowing with the chaos you're causing with this fight. That might be part of it... But, to be honest, there's a part of me that can hardly believe how much fun tearing your head off will be.

%Rafiel,Lekain
Rafiel: No!
Lekain: Tah ha ha... How delightfully pathetic. Poor heron prince, teeming with rage, but incapable of hurting me! Tah ha ha ha! How absolutely marvellous!
Rafiel: Your soul... is deeply scarred...

%Nailah,Lekain
Lekain: Ah, interesting! You’re one of those sub-humans from the east that I’ve been hearing about.
Nailah: And you’re one of the fat, corrupted pieces of filth that we’re fighting.
Lekain: How dare you! I am Duke of Gaddos!
Nailah: Gaddos? Where’s that? That name means nothing to me. How do beorc always get the idea that the place they’re from is the center of everything?
Lekain: Silence, you loathsome cur! I’ll ensure that your country is left in ruins!

%Leanne,Lekain
Leanne: (Eep, it’s you! Where’s Tibarn when you need him...)
Lekain: The lovely heron maiden... If not for the battle raging around us, I’d keep you as a... trophy.

%Oliver,Lekain
Lekain: Duke of Tanas... What’s gotten into you? Why are you fighting with these mercenary scum?
Oliver: I am Oliver, champion of beauty! You would harm my precious feathered angels! That makes you my enemy! Unsightly man... Prepare yourself!
Lekain: Have you finally gone stark mad? Who, exactly, do you think you’re blathering at?

%Sigrun,Lekain
Sigrun: Lekain, Duke of Gaddos... Don’t bother with any of your practiced lies. Speak with your weapon.
Lekain: Dame Sigrun... I suppose I’m not surprised. I should have known you would still be on Sanaki’s leash! Have you asked yourself why? She is a mere pretender to the throne. You’re just a dog to a false apostle!
Sigrun: Correct me if I’m wrong, Lord Lekain, but Sanaki was formally recognized by the senators as the empress. Where in Begnion law is an empress required to also be an apostle? This sounds like yet another case of you senators trying to twist the law for your own benefit.
Lekain: Bah! Your legalistic manipulations don’t make you right!
Sigrun: For too long, we have tolerated you bending laws for your own benefit, with no foundation whatsoever in justice. Now it’s time for you to pay for your sins!
Lekain: Impudence! You can’t beat me... I am the chosen one!

%Tanith,Lekain
Lekain: Hmph... Hello, Tanith. How odd to find you alongside these imbeciles, not to mention their imposter of a leader.
Tanith: Silence your filthy mouth! I will not brook such insults.
Lekain: F... Fi... Filthy?! How dare you slander the duke of Gaddos! I will rule the world in place of our goddess Ashera! Sanaki is not a true apostle or an empress. She’s a mere slip of a girl!
Tanith: There is no Begnion law that requires an empress to also be an apostle.
Lekain: Whaaat?
Tanith: Each apostle has thus far been seated as emperor only because that has been what served the senators best. Sanaki has ruled successfully without the benefit of divine inspiration for more than half her life. She is well loved by her subjects. Saying that she is not a true apostle will do nothing to alter that fact.
Lekain: Dogmatic rhetoric will achieve nothing!
Tanith: Very true. Empress Sanaki is my liege, and as her knight, it is my duty to destroy her enemies.
Lekain: Blasphemy! Striking me is no different than raising your sword to our goddess!
Tanith: Speaking of dogmatic rhetoric... Duke of Gaddos, farewell.

%Astrid,Lekain 
Astrid: Lord Lekain...
Lekain: Hm? You... You are from House Damiell...
Astrid: Yes, I am. It’s been a while, but I didn’t think you’d forget me quite so easily. I wasn’t sure at the time, but marrying you would have been the biggest mistake of my life.
Lekain: Ha! Bold talk from a penniless mercenary! You were never worthy of Lekain of Gaddos, head of the senators and chosen by the goddess herself!

%Pelleas,Lekain
Pelleas: Vi-Vice-Minister Lekain...
Lekain: Hm? Ahhh, still alive, are we? I suppose that I can still find a use for you... I know! Go and attack the enemy general.
Pelleas: Um...
Lekain: Why are you not obeying, fool? That look on your face... You think you're going to save your people! That is precious! You can't possibly believe that one so flawed as yourself has a prayer against me?
Pelleas: I do, actually.
Lekain: Whaaat?! Did I hear you correctly?!
Pelleas: I said I believe. I believe in myself, and I believe in my companions. Even if I falter and fail... My friends will defeat you. This belief sustains me. I can fight you because I am no longer alone.
Lekain: Let us test your theory, then! Die, upstart!

%Sanaki,Lekain
Sanaki: Burn, traitor!
Lekain: Watch your tongue, girl!

%Sothe,Lekain
Sothe: ...
Lekain: Hm? Who are you? How did a shabby little burglar get in here?
Sothe: If that's how you want to see me, then so be it. But know that that's also how I see you. I don't think we even need to exchange names. I'll just kill you and leave it at that.

%Micaiah,Lekain
Lekain: Ah, the so-called Silver-Haired Maiden. Both dark goddess and Daein general... Your very existence is vile beyond belief.
Micaiah: Lekain, Duke of Gaddos... You crushed the people of Daein beneath your unjust rule and dragged us into a futile war. How do you live with the guilt of your sins?
Lekain: Sins? Do not presume to speak to me of sin, child of Daein. If only you had understood that I am on the side of the angels, you might be standing with me here today.
Micaiah: Your delusions can't change what I see in your twisted soul, demon! Now give me that scroll!
Lekain: Impudent brat!

%Naesala,Lekain
Lekain: Tah ha ha... So nice to see you, King Naesala. When you can’t oppose me, that is. Your blood pact means that you’ll have to betray your companions... yet again.
Naesala: Not today, actually.
Lekain: What did you say?
Naesala: Sorry to break it to you, Lekain, but I have recently... been promoted, shall we say. I now take orders from over your head, Vice-Minister. From Empress Sanaki, to be exact.
Lekain: Wh-what...Whaaaat... ?!
Naesala: The curse of the blood pact applies if the master’s orders aren’t obeyed, but by the law of Begnion, you’re overruled. So, Lekain, right here, right now... I’m going to tear you apart, as I’ve been wanting to do for years.
Lekain: Urk!

%Ike,Lekain
Lekain: Tah ha ha! Laughable mercenaries! Sanaki could certainly have chosen better allies. If only she had sided with me, she wouldn't be damned now. Oh well...
Ike: Yeah, whoever chose you as an ally has had better days, too. So who is it? Who's pulling your strings?
Lekain: Pulling my strings? What are you saying? I alone have been chosen to protect her! I masterminded the plan to resurrect the goddess and become Ashera's chosen one! It is my right! Mine alone!
Ike: Really? I didn't see you around when the galdr of release was sung to the medallion...
Lekain: What medallion? What nonsense are you talking about?
Ike: Wow... You don't have any idea what's really going on, do you, "mastermind"? I'm just wasting my time.
Lekain: You... You! Urghh! I am Lekain, Duke of Gaddos! The one and only!

@Boss
Lekain: This... This can't be... I was... I was...chosen...

@End
Micaiah: King Pelleas! This is it. Lekain was carrying it. It's... It's...the blood pact!
Pelleas: At long last... We finally found it. All that misery Daein has suffered over this wretched parchment... But this is the last thing we need. Now we can free Daein of the senate's tyranny. Micaiah, savior of Daein... Would you do the honors and destroy that damned thing?
Micaiah: Of course...

Micaiah: ...Whew...


Micaiah: That's it.
Pelleas: Yes, and now no one has to die.
Micaiah: Thank goodness...
Pelleas: Micaiah...Sothe... You have my deepest gratitude.
Sothe: Hey! Look, there's another pact here. Lekain was carrying two of them. What's going on?
Sanaki: Oh... I'll hang on to this.
Micaiah: Empress Sanaki?
Sanaki: I promised to return this to its proper owner, Raven King Naesala. Because of this, he was forced to serve under Lekain, and he had to turn against his allies...
Pelleas: So, Kilvas, too?
Sanaki: Yes. Lekain's treachery ran deep. At least it's finally over. I'm happy for everyone.
Micaiah: As am I.
Pelleas: And yet, Daein and Kilvas's newfound freedom is wasted on the statues that call them home. We still must confront the goddess.
Sanaki: Well spoken. We can't stop until everyone is truly free. Come! The goddess awaits.

Sanaki: Lekain... To think that the warped dreams of one treacherous madman could corrupt an entire nation...
Ike: Apostle? Are you well?
Sanaki: So you still insist on calling me "apostle"? I think we're past that, Ike.
Ike: So what should I call you? Miss Sanaki?
Sanaki: How rude! You have no right to address me with such familiarity! Please call me "Empress."
Ike: Got it, Empress.
Sanaki: You don't have to say it like that. Loosen up a bit.
Ike: Oh, give me a break...

Yune: You creatures are made of some tough meat. I don't think that girl even needs to hear the divine word, do you?
Ike: Yune, you're a bit of a mystery, yourself. It almost sounds like you're happy to se that people don't necessarily need you.
Yune: The one constant truth of people, Ike, is that nobody can stop them from changing. People sometimes do things that even the highest divinities couldn't imagine. That makes me sad. But that also makes me very happy. That's why I love people so much.
Ike: There are some changes that goddesses can't even predict or control. Maybe Ashera resented that.
Yune: I don't know... But I do know that Ashera loved people. I'm sure of it...

@Conversation 
Elincia: We’re almost there. Tomorrow, we head to the tower.
Geoffrey: Do not worry, Your Majesty. We will be right beside you.
Bastian: Though long tested by the trials of the goddess Ashera, we shall overcome, and our mission will be laid to rest.
Lucia: Yes. What we do now, we do not only for the people of Crimea, but for all the people of Tellius.
Elincia: Yes... We shall succeed.
???: You are a courageous queen, indeed.
Elincia: Who said that?
Elincia: U-Uncle Renning! Are you all right now!?
Renning: Don’t I look it? I stand before you in full health... Thanks to your efforts, of course.
Elincia: Wonderful! I’m so relieved, Uncle!
Lucia: Duke Renning.
Renning: Lucia, you have my gratitude for looking after Elincia so diligently. Bastian, Geoffrey... Everyone, you have my sincere thanks.
Lucia: Please, Duke Renning. It is our joy to serve Her Majesty. Our loyalty extends beyond the queen. Please do not forget that.
Renning: ...Thank you. I appreciate your concern. Especially yours, Bastian.
Bastian: I stand by you, my lord.
Renning: You have ever been my most loyal and clever confidant. Was it possible for you to acquire the things I desired?
Bastian: Indeed, my lord. For you, to whom I owe my mastery of disciplines esoteric and arcane, no task is too difficult. Your sword, your armor, and your faithful steed stand ready, that the battlefield shall know your valor once more.
Renning: You haven’t changed a bit, Bastian. Always the clever one.
Bastian: Your praise is too much, my lord.
Elincia: Uncle! You intend to join the fight!? Please, you mustn’t push yourself too hard!
Renning: My, how things have changed! Am I to take orders from my niece on what battles I am allowed to fight in? I’m not a princess to be coddled and kept safe behind the vanguard, Elincia. I am a knight of Crimea, and I will be one until I die. As long as I live, as long as I am able to walk, and as long as I draw breath, I shall fight. It is my duty.
Elincia: ...I understand. Swear to me, then. Swear that you won’t die. That you won’t ever leave me alone.
Renning: I swear to you that I will never leave you behind. I swear it upon my pride as a knight and upon my love for my country. Now, Your Majesty, please grant me the honor of protecting you in battle.
Elincia: Oh, Uncle... You may have to compete for that role, I think.
Geoffrey: Duke Renning... I will not give up my place as the commander of the Royal Knights, even to you.
Renning: Let’s take it outside, then. Perhaps I’ll remind you why you have never won a match against me.
Geoffrey: As you wish, Duke Renning. I will also show you that I have spent three years preparing solely to defend the queen from harm. I have made it my life.
Elincia: U-Uncle?! And Geoffrey, you too?! Bastian, do something!
Bastian: Truly, I shall have to! After all, a match between such stalwart warriors needs be judged. I believe I shall volunteer my services. Excuse me.
Elincia: Bastian!
Lucia: Oh, Your Majesty. Let them be.
Elincia: Lucia? Are you siding with them, too?
Lucia: Doesn’t all of this remind you of a scene in Melior from years ago? Tomorrow is full of uncertainty. We may live and we may die. Yet here we are, enjoying a little scene of high drama from glory-filled past. I’m glad of it.
Elincia: That’s true... It’s like a weight has been lifted off my chest. Why don’t we follow them? We should enjoy our final night together.
Lucia: Of course, Your Majesty.

Caineghis: Ike. I have something to give you.
Ike: Hey, this is...
Caineghis: It’s called Urvan, if I remember correctly. I borrowed it from your father’s grave.
Ike: Why?
Caineghis: Honestly? I have no idea. But I felt a sudden urge to visit Greil’s grave on the morning of our journey. When I told Giffca my idea for a little side trip, he said he thought the same thing.
Giffca: I believe we were guided to your father’s grave by a divine message from the goddess.
Caineghis: When I saw your father’s axe, I was convinced that I had to take it to you. I felt that’s what your father would have wanted.
Ike: ...Maybe he and my mother are looking over us from somewhere else. All right. It’s my father’s, so it’s only right that I take it.

Ike: Volke...?
Volke: Over here.
Ike: Looking for you is still like trying to find spilled ink at night.
Volke: It’s part of the job. Anyways... You’ve grown quite a bit since the last time I saw you.
Ike: Everyone loves telling me that.
Volke: You’re starting to look like Greil.
Ike: That might be true, too. He IS my dad. I didn’t expect to see you here. Did someone from this camp hire you?
Volke: Sure did.
Ike: I see. It’s good to have you on our side under any circumstances. Why did you call me over?
Volke: I have to return something to you.
Ike: What the...!? What’s all this money for?
Volke: It’s the 50,000 gold you paid me the last time around. Well, minus my pay, expenses, and that sort of thing, of course.
Ike: Even so, there’s a lot here.
Volke: Well, the contract ended sooner than expected, I guess.
Ike: You did a lot for us back then. I didn’t even get a chance to thank you.
Volke: It was a job. There’s no need to thank me.
Ike: I know. But if you hadn’t told me the story of my father, I would never have known about his past. So thanks, Volke.
Volke: Uh, yeah, so, anyhow... You have your money back. See you later.
Ike: Did he really just get embarrassed because I thanked him? What a weird guy.
/***EOF***/
@Intro
Izuka: Ahem! As general staff officer of Daein's Liberation Army, allow me to outline my latest strategy.
Micaiah: Excuse me, but shouldn't Prince Pelleas be here?
Izuka: There's no need to distract the prince with the war's petty details. He won't be coming to any more meetings. From now on, consider my words the prince's own.
Micaiah: I'm not sure that's--
Izuka: Enough idle chatter. Come have a glance, my pretties.

Izuka: Our next target shall be Umono. Among all the work camps, it is one of the largest.
Tauroneo: Conditions within the prison camp are harsh. If we are to save the prisoners, every moment matters.
Sothe: One of the largest work camps... Can our forces handle that?
Izuka: ...Suck a trivial concern, and one my profound genius has already addressed! Behold this lake next to the camp that provides fresh water to all there. Into this lake, we shall dump a deadly toxin of my own devising! Then we'll sit back...as the enemy slowly dies.
Micaiah: What are you saying?! Poison is inexcusably vile! I will agree to no such plan.
Izuka: Wha-wha-what was that?! You! You! How dare you question my plan, conceived in a state of exalted meditation!
Micaiah: No matter how misguided the enemy may be, we must fight with compassion and consideration for the innocent.
Sothe: She's right. Poison doesn't discriminate. Prisoners would die too. And any nearby villages would be affected. And then what would happen? People would doubt us, question our cause, maybe even side against us. And it would cast a stain on Prince Pelleas's name, don't you think?
Izuka: Errrrrgh... Fine then! Do as you like! And when you find yourselves utterly defeated, you can come crawling back to me! 
Tauroneo: My apologies to both of you. When Lord Izuka gets excited, he can lose all sight of reason.
Micaiah: I apologize too, General Tauroneo. He stormed out because I--
Tauroneo: You needn't apologize. ?You are in the right. I would never condone the use of poison. However, this does mean we must devise another plan if we are to have any hope of victory.
Micaiah: Yes, you're right. In that case, what do you think of this strategy?

@Conversation 
Pelleas: Sorry to call you here like this. Forgive me.
Micaiah: It's quite all right.
Pelleas: Can I pour you some tea? Or is there something else you would prefer?
Micaiah: I'm fine, thank you. What did you want to speak with me about?
Pelleas: I know you are angry with me. Please, forgive me.
Micaiah: Can you tell me why you stopped showing up at our meetings?
Pelleas: It was at Izuka's request.
Micaiah: You are the leader of this army! You cannot simply leave all the decisions to someone else!
Pelleas: ...I'm sorry. I'll ask Izuka before the next meeting. I need his permission to attend.
Micaiah: Why? You're the prince. Why should you need any man's permission, much less your own advisor's?
Pelleas: Yes, I am the prince, but...I owe much to Izuka. He taught me everything I needed to know to become a proper member of the royal family. He contacted Tauroneo and the other senators from Daein for help. Without his power and influence, I would never have mustered an army--or met my own mother.
Micaiah: I see. You were alone...
Pelleas: Pardon?
Micaiah: And then Izuka reunited you with your mother, gave you a place to stay, and provided you with a reason to live. And you feel you owe him a debt of gratitude for ending your loneliness. That is why you try to do as you are told--as Izuka wishes.
Pelleas: Micaiah, you're--
Micaiah: I'm sorry! I didn't mean to-- That was inappropriate.
Pelleas: You're amazing!
Micaiah: Amazing?
Pelleas: You really can read minds! I'm simply amazed! You saw right through me!
Micaiah: ...
Pelleas: Sorry, I got too excited. Look at me, I'm sweating.
Micaiah: Prince Pelleas!
Pelleas: What is it? Why are you looking at me like that?
Micaiah: That mark...
Pelleas: Oh...that.
Micaiah: What is it?
Pelleas: It's called the Spirit's Protection. The source of all magic in this world is tied to the power of the spirits. When you make a pact with such a spirit, its power manifests on your body like this.
Micaiah: I...see.
Pelleas: What am I saying? You already know all of this, of course. You have the Spirit's Protection, too.
Micaiah: What?
Pelleas: I saw you washing your hands the other day. When I walked up to you to say hello, Is aw the mark on your right hand.
Micaiah: You saw...
Pelleas: I thought of confiding in you right away, but my mother called for me. I didn't get a chance to tell you until now.
Micaiah: Do you think this mark is really the Spirit's Protection?
Pelleas: Oh! You didn't enter into the pact yourself?
Micaiah: No.
Pelleas: I see. So, it must have been the spirit who wished to make a pact with you.
Micaiah: Pardon?
Pelleas: It's a very rare phenomenon among newborns. Usually it happens to infants who have an exceptional talent for magic. You truly are amazing, Micaiah.
Micaiah: I don't know about that...
Pelleas: Let's keep this among ourselves... We don't want people to confuse us with the Branded.
Micaiah: What are the "Branded"?
Pelleas: I'm pretty sure it refers to beorc who have laguz blood in their veins. I know, it's hard to imagine someone with the blood of a sub-human running through their veins. Anyway, I've been terribly mistreated by people who thought I was one of the Branded.
Micaiah: ...
Pelleas: Micaiah?
Micaiah: Oh...sorry. I think I understand more about you now, and about the marks we share...
Pelleas: I'm glad I was able to tell you. I'm surprised you didn't know. Come talk to me again sometime.
Micaiah: Certainly.
Pelleas: Oh, I almost forgot. Here. I wanted to give you this.
Micaiah: What is it?
Pelleas: It's this splendid sword I recently acquired. It gives its wielder the upper hand in battle. Keep it or give it to whomever you like.
Micaiah: Shouldn't you give it to the soldier you deem most worthy?
Pelleas: No, I wouldn't want the soldiers thinking I'm giving anyone special treatment. It would be inappropriate. That's what Izuka says, anyway. So I think you should do it.
Micaiah: I understand. You must have so much on your mind.
Pelleas: Indeed. I long for the hold days when I was poor, but had few worries.
Micaiah: Prince Pelleas...
Pelleas: But I'll keep fighting. I won't stop until Daein is free once more.
Micaiah: Hear, hear!

Meg: H-hello...
Zihark: Oh, hello there.
Meg: H-h-hello.
Zihark: Yes...hello. Now that we have that established, what can I do for you?
Meg: Um... Uh... I... I'm...Meg.
Zihark: Yes, I know. It's nice to meet you, Meg. That's a very nice name.
Meg: And, uh... I'm from Crimea.
Zihark: Yep, I'm one step ahead of you! Heard that too. You're far away from home now, aren't you? Quite an independent girl, eh?
Meg: Um, and, my village... It's called Ohma.
Zihark: Oh! You're from Ohma? Now that's something I didn't know.
Meg: Yes.
Zihark: Then you must know Brom... Hold on a second... You look exactly like him. Are you two related?
Meg: We sure are! I'm his daughter. His...youngest daughter.
Zihark: Oh, I've heard stories! He loves to tell stories about his kids. He said that you could lift a full-grown cow! It's nice to meet the person I've heard so much about! How is Brom? Doing well?
Meg: Yes! Yes, he is! He works ALL the time. I do wish he would slow down...
Zihark: Ah, yes. Well, it's good to hear he's staying busy. Brom, huh? Wow, brings back memories... Well, if you're his daughter, I'll do whatever I can do help you. You said you were looking for somebody? Who is this person?
Meg: Well... He's my... He's my fiance.
Zihark: How could any guy leave a girl like you? What's this lucky guy's name? What's he like?
Meg: Well...he's standing right in front of me.
Zihark: I'm sorry, I'm sure I misheard you. Can you repeat that? ...Slowly?
Meg: My daddy told us years ago that he was going to marry one of us to a really nice friend of his, a mercenary named Zihark.
Zihark: Whoa, hey now...I don't, uh...
Meg: But my older sister got married last year, and so I came instead! Oh, it's so nice to finally meet my husband!
Zihark: Meg, look, this is kind of crazy...
Meg: Zihark... I'm sure I still have a lot to learn... But after meeting you, I just know we'll live happily ever after!
Zihark: Meg, I need you to listen very closely...
Meg: Oh, don't worry! I'll work hard every waking moment to become a good wife! Even during a fight! See you later, pookums!
Zihark: Meg, wait! Wow, she's downright pushy. She must get that from her old man. ...And did she just call me "pookums"?

@Intro
Djur: What?! An enemy attack?
Begnion: Yes, sir! The Liberation Army has mounted an assault on the gate! We require reinforcements!
Djur: Hmph. They seek to free their men? My elite guard shall stay here with me. Take the rest to squash these "rebels"!
Begnion: But, sir, if your guard remains here, we'll have barely enough men to--
Djur: Who do you think you're talking to, soldier? With my guard and me at the ready, this camp need fear no attack. Understood? Now go! You have your orders!


Sothe: Looks like Tauroneo has them distracted. They've left only a small force here to defend the camp itself.
Micaiah: Perfect. That should make it easier for us to eliminate their defenses, seize the camp, and free the prisoners.

@Battle
Tormod: What do you think, Muarim? Is that the building Sothe's in?
Muarim: Most likely, little one.
Vika: So, are we gonna help them, or should we just stand here all day and twiddle our thumbs?
Tormod: What do you think? We're helping, of course! Keep up, Muarim! Come on, Vika!
Vika: Hey, boss! Wait a second! I'll be... He's already out of sight. How does he do that on those skinny beorc legs?
Muarim: Who do you think taught him how to run? We'd better go after him.

???: Sooooo--ooothe!
Sothe: Huh?! What...
Micaiah: Eh?
Tormod: Have no fear...Tormod is here! I'm coming to your rescue!
Sothe: Tormod?! You crazy fool...
Zihark: Time for the trusty hero to save the day, I see. Still quite the showman, eh, Tormod?
Jill: It's more like a reunion every moment. Now if Haar were just here...
Tormod: All right! Let's go wild!

Begnion: Ah...eyahhhhhhh! Sub-human! It's a sub-human!
Begnion: Calm down! Just use fire magic for the beasts and wind for the birds! That'll do the trick. That child hasn't transformed yet! Nab him before he does!
Tormod: Fool! Transforming ain't what I do. But I can do this...

Begnion: He-he's a mage! Fall back! Don't get too close to him!
Micaiah: Who in the world are they?
Sothe: People I used to know. I'll introduce you later, but for now, let's concentrate on the fight.

@Recruit-Talk 
%Sothe,Tormod
Sothe: Hey, Tormod!
Tormod: You! What in blazes did you do?! You scurvy traitor!
Sothe: What are you talking about?
Tormod: You grew! Too tall!
Sothe: And to think, I expected you to make sense. I have more important things to tend to.
Tormod: Hey, it's important to me!
Sothe: What I'd really like to hear about is that issue I asked you to look into... How did it go?
Tormod: I have news to report. But! There's no time to chat in the thick of a fight. I'll tell you later!
Sothe: Hey! Drat!

@Battle-Talk 
%Sothe,Muarim
Sothe: Ah, hello. It's been a while.
Muarim: Little Sothe... You've grown up.
Sothe: Why does everybody keep saying that?
Muarim: Hmm?
Sothe: You know, "little"?
Muarim: Oh, sorry. I guess I have to respect your manly pride now.
Sothe: Yes, please. Or something like that.
Muarim: "Sir Sothe." Will that do?
Sothe: Sothe will do. Just Sothe.
Muarim: I'm afraid I could never speak so familiarly with my little one's good friend. So, with your permission... Sir Sothe.
Sothe: No! That doesn't... Ohhh, never mind!

%Jill,Muarim
Jill: Muarim, do you remember me?
Muarim: Indeed I do, Jill.
Jill: I'm glad. So why are you in Daein?
Muarim: You'll have to ask the little one. I merely trail around after him.
Jill: I see. I will ask him. Thank you for helping us today.
Muarim: It is an honor.

%Jill,Tormod
Jill: Tormod!
Tormod: If it isn't Jill!
Jill: Thanks for fighting beside us. It's a big help.
Tormod: Ah, it's nothing!
Jill: How did you happen to...
Tormod: An enemy! Excellent! Leave him to me! 
Jill: There he goes... At least some things never change.

%Zihark,Tormod
Zihark: Hey there, Tormod. You're looking well.
Tormod: So you're here too, eh, Zihark?
Zihark: Polished your mage skills over the last few years, I see.
Tormod: But of course! I'll toast anyone who dares oppose me!
Zihark: Really? Well then, why don't you take on the rest of the guards while I sit back and take a break? 
Tormod: You know what I mean! Get back here and fight like you mean it! Zihark!

%Zihark,Muarim
Zihark: Muarim!
Muarim: Zihark, has it been three years?
Zihark: First Crimea, now Daein. Never a dull day! Still, it's good to fight with you again.
Muarim: You can say that again.
Zihark: OK. It's good to fight with you again.
Muarim: Beorc humor is so...odd. But you know I feel the same.

@Battle
Ex-Daein: Y-you really came to save us? Thank you. Oh, thank you. You have no idea how scared I've been. I'm so glad I didn't give up. We knew the Maiden of Miracles would free us.

Ex-Daein: Thank you! I'm saved! I couldn't have held on any longer... I'm going to make a run for it. I refuse to die in this pit of despair. I choose to live and return to my family!

Ex-Daein: This isn't a dream? I can really leave this miserable cage? Oh, thank you. Thank you! You've saved my life!

Ex-Daein: You're the Liberation Army. I've heard about you... I'll never forget my debt to you. If I survive and make it home, I vow to devote the rest of my life to your cause. I'll fight for Daein honor, like you do.

@Boss
Djur: Errrrrgh...! Blundering through like a bull in a china shop... Come closer, so I can shatter your ambition like glass! I will beat into your very bones just who rules this land!

Djur: They were...worthless, trivial... Only...scum of Daein... How? How... could that filth have...

%Micaiah,Djur
Micaiah: We are the Daein Liberation Army! We demand you free the hostages... or face the consequences!
Djur: Of all the ridiculous... All of you pigs from Daein will be our slaves 'til you die! It's your destiny. What need have swine for freedom? Swine are happier being kept...and consumed.
Micaiah: If that's how you really feel, then....

@End
Izuka: S-see here! Sothe! Who were those three, and where did they come from? Will they join my Liberation Army?
Sothe: They are my personal acquaintances from Begnion. And yeah, they can handle themselves in a fight. But if any more laguz join us, there will be problems. We've managed to hide Volug and his true nature, but...with more laguz, it will surely get out.
Izuka: Any such backlash can be extinguished with proper punishment. But laguz... They're powerful!  Just what we need. By all means, invite them to join!
Sothe: They're good friends. I'm sure they'll agree to help if I ask . But... Isn't it the prince--and not you--who should make those decisions?
Izuka: Question me not, young Sothe. My words are the prince's words. You need to understand that. Isn't that right, my prince?
Pelleas: Ah, ah, yes, that's right. You should do as Izuka wishes.
Sothe: I...see.
Izuka: I'm glad you see. Now, quickly, quickly...go talk to your friends. And see to it you don't foul up.

Sothe: How did you get here so soon? More importantly, how did the investigation go?
Tormod: It went great! In fact, we finished up so quickly that we flew here to back you up in case you needed help.
Micaiah: Um...
Tormod: Oh, sorry I haven't introduced myself yet. You're Micaiah, I take it? I'm Tormod! Three years back, Sothe and I were in the Crimean Army...sorta. We fought side by side as mercenaries under Ike.
Micaiah: Of course...General Ike...again.
Tormod: I beg your pardon?
Micaiah: Nothing. Don't mind me. So, anyway, what is this investigation Sothe requested of you?
Sothe: I began to doubt that the apostle--Begnion's empress--actually knew what was happening in Daein. At only thirteen, the apostle may be young, but she's proud and upstanding. She'd never let these kinds of things happen to Daein. So, I asked Tormod to fill her in on what was really happening here.
Tormod: This is what we learned... The apostle had noticed something shady about Daein. She was investigating on her own. She traced the ones pulling the strings to a certain faction of senators. Now, she's snapping mad, but without proof, she can't publicly move against them.
Sothe: The apostle is the highest power in Daein... Even so, she and the senate are rarely on good terms with each other.
Tormod: Sothe, she promised she'd help us however she can. She said to do whatever is necessary... And that inspired me to find you sooner than later.
Sothe: I see. So... I can depend on having you three around, for at least a little while?
Tormod: Yeah! Your old pal here is gonna take care of everything. Just try getting rid of me!
Sothe: I can only try!
Tormod: What do you mean by that?! Ah, you're as blockheaded as ever.

Micaiah: That Sothe... He looks happy, for some reason.
Muarim: Because he's reunited with my little one?
Micaiah: That must be it... Oh, Sothe, ever since he was small, he's tried to act more grown up than the grown-ups... I've taken care of him so long, and still I've never seen him smile so easily before.
Muarim: Hm... Watch what you say. Comments like that... They reveal that your appearance belies your true age.
Micaiah: What are you--
Muarim: Among the laguz, there are those who detest and revile half-breeds such as yourself. They call you "parentless," and deny you any laguz heritage, honor, or dignity. Take due care.
Micaiah: Oh... Oh no...

@Narration
Laguz warriors led by Tormod join the escaped prisoners, and Daein's army grows ever larger. Its victories at Talrega and other locations have strengthened its position. The army rides across the land, liberating prisoners from Begnion encampments. The Daein ranks swell with the influx of veteran soldiers, and the men begin to dream of the day when they may retake the capital.
Like a fever, conflict grips the nation. The night will be long before this fever breaks. All eyes turn towards Daein's capital as the liberation begins what all believe will be a long and bloody march.

/***EOF***/
@Intro
Sothe: What's going on, Micaiah?
Micaiah: I'm not sure. I sense...something. There's a presence here that calls out to me.
Sothe: All right, Micaiah, you and I should look into this. Everyone else, check the surroundings.
Nolan: Got it. Everybody, be on your guard.
Sothe: Amazing... I can't believe these ruins are still standing.
Micaiah: They do seem to be very old, indeed. I wonder who built them...
Sothe: Judging by the size, it must have been the laguz.
Micaiah: What makes you say that?
Sothe: What do you think it would be like, to change into a bird or a dragon, as the laguz can? Being part beast is one thing, but being able to transform into that beast, with more strength than we could ever imagine... I mean, they could build a place like this before breakfast.
Micaiah: I suppose that's true... But what surprises me most is not that these could be laguz ruins, but you, Sothe. You've changed, haven't you?
Sothe: Me? How so?
Micaiah: I remember a time when you used to refer to them laguz as "sub-humans." Such an ugly word. Now look at you.
Sothe: Well, come on. Beorc are called the "Children of Wisdom"--and the laguz the "Children of Strength"--for a reason. But I know now that just because our two races differ, that doesn't mean one is better than the other. The age-old beorc bias against laguz is based on sheer ignorance. When I met Ike during the war three years ago...and fought beneath him...he made me realize this.
Micaiah: Honestly. Here I thought you were saying something enlightened, and you're just talking about him again?
Sothe: What do you mean, "again"?
Micaiah: Sothe, sometimes, every other thing you say is like an ode to Ike. I know you fought beside him. I know you owe him your life. And I know you want to be just like him... But to the people of Daein, he's the man who crushed us three years ago. Some would even call him our archenemy. If we hadn't lost the war to that man, Daein wouldn't be in the mess it's in now. You know that.
Sothe: Pish! I know that. Everyone knows that.

@Conversation
Micaiah: Sothe, have you noticed...
Sothe: Yes. Ever since we arrived here.
???: ...
Sothe: What should we do?
Micaiah: Hmm, I can’t sense any malice. Whoever it is doesn’t seem to mean us any harm, but... Yes, let’s do it.
Sothe: All right. On three, then. One...two...three!
???: Ahh!
Meg: Hey!
Micaiah: There, now we can see your face.
Sothe: You’re...a girl?
Meg: I-I’m sorry!
Micaiah: No! Wait! Please don’t run!
Meg: ...
Micaiah: My name is Micaiah. Don’t be afraid.
Sothe: Have you gone mad? Don’t tell her your name! We’re on the run, remember?
Micaiah: It’s all right. She’s not after us.
Meg: ...
Micaiah: Thie is my...brother, Sothe. We’re from Nevassa.
Meg: Oh...uhh...hi there.
Micaiah: And you are?
Meg: I’m Meg.
Sothe: What are you doing out here on the edge of the desert?
Meg: I’m looking for someone. Someone very important. Someone close to my heart...
Micaiah: All by yourself?
Meg: Yes.
Sothe: You’re meeting someone way out here?
Meg: I’m not sure, exactly. All I know is that this is where he came before he disappeared. I thought maybe he went into the desert...
Micaiah: What a coincidence. We’re also looking for someone in the desert. Would you like to come along?
Meg: Really? Are you sure?
Micaiah: Of course.
Meg: Oh, thank you! I’ve been so lonely since I left Crimea all on my own.
Sothe: You came all the way from Crimea? I’m surprised you made it this far.
Micaiah: That’s it then. Welcome aboard, Meg. You’re one of us now.

Aimee: Oh, there you are. Can we have a word with you?
Micaiah: Aimee, Muston. How may I help you?
Aimee: Relax, honey. I’m here to tell you about our business. You like to shop, don’t you?
Sothe: Let me guess, you want to sell us weapons and other items. Am I right?
Muston: That’s right. Our inventory changes depending on where we are and what time it is. But one thing is always the same. We guarantee fair prices! So stop by whenever you can.
Micaiah: Do you carry tomes?
Muston: Yup. Fire, Thunder, Wind, Light... we’ve got your basics covered.
Aimee: My shop also has lots of staves and medicine. Oh, and I have recently made some...key connections. Now I carry some very rare items. They’re one of a kind, and very valuable. You should come have a look! Rare weapons too. Honestly, you should buy them, before someone else does! At these prices, they’re bound to sell quickly.
Muston: Well, that’s our spiel. Thanks for listening.
Aimee: Do come by! We’ll be waiting.

Jorge: Well, hello! Don’t mind us. We won’t take but a moment of your time...
Micaiah: Hello, Jorge. Hello, Daniel.
Daniel: We just wanted to tell you a little about what we can do for YOU.
Sothe: I’ve already told her. Jorge will buy from us any items or weapons that we no longer need. And Daniel--
Jorge: Hey! Excuse me, we’re here to talk to Micaiah! Not to some stuffy, know-it-all pun--
Daniel: Jorge, don’t be rude! I’m sorry about that, Sothe. Anyway, we just wanted to tell you about some changes we made to out business.
Sothe: All right, then. I’ll keep my mouth shut as long as Daniel does the talking.
Daniel: Thank you.
Micaiah: So, what do you have, Daniel?
Jorge: Hey, thanks for asking! I’ve got a guy who’s a master blacksmith. He makes weapons you wouldn’t believe...and they’re not available anywhere else!
Daniel: Hey, thanks a lot, Jorge! I make weapons too...pretty good ones, if I do say so myself! It’s just, you know, customs have been extremely tight lately...raw materials are so hard to come by... Which reminds me, if you ever have weapons you don’t need, would you sell them to us?
Jorge: Yes, please. Actually, even better...sell me your weapons, and I’ll give them to Daniel. Then he can smelt them down and use the steel for newer, shinier, pieces!
Daniel: It costs some money to upgrade weapons, but... But hey, let’s face it, it’s worth the money. Owning a custom-made weapon sets you apart from the common soldier!
Jorge: Oh, and here’s a one-time-only deal! I won’t even charge you for the materials on your first upgrade! Pretty nice, huh? Now you have no excuse not to come by. Got that, Micaiah?
Micaiah: Umm...yes. Thank you.
Sothe: ...
Daniel: One last thing. If you ever bring me a coin, I’ll give you a little bonus on whatever I’m making for you. They’re very rare, so be sure to hang on to them. Don’t sell them to some stranger!

Micaiah: What are you doing out here, Kurth?
Kurth: Hello, Micaiah. Pay me no mind. I’m just watching the desert. How the wind changes the sandscape...The ebb and flow of the dunes, like giant swells in the ocean. I find it mesmerizing.
Micaiah: Is this your first time in the desert?
Kurth: Yes. My homeland is ringed with mountains. Everything about Daein looks new and curious to my eyes.
Micaiah: I see.
Kurth: ...You have not asked.
Micaiah: I’m sorry?
Kurth: You have not asked me who I am or where I am from. Not just you, Micaiah, but the others as well. No one seeks to know who I am.
Micaiah: You seem to not want to talk about yourself. Am I right?
Kurth: Yes... Quite right.
Micaiah: That’s why no one asks. People can tell when someone wants privacy. Many of us desire privacy too. Kurth, you are not our enemy. I know that much. You’re kind and gentle. That is all I need to know.
Kurth: Thank you...

@Intro
Micaiah: Yune? What is it? Where are you going?

Micaiah: Incredible! Sothe:  Mounds of treasure! Maybe it was the gold calling you, Micaiah?
???: Grrruah! What is this?! Looks like a tasty snack turned up while we were out!

Pain: Mwah-ha-ha! Our first prey in a long time. Leave them to me, my fang-brothers!
Sothe: Not good. Laguz bandits! Micaiah, give the signal.
Micaiah: Consider it done!

@Boss
Pain: Mwah-ha-ha! Come here so I can taste you!

Pain: Mwah...ha...ha-- Gnk! How did this happen?

Agony: Grrruah! Puny little humans, come and fight!

Agony: Grrrua...gack! What happened to me...

%Micaiah,Pain
Pain: Mwah-ha-ha! Beorc are good eats!
Micaiah: Listen up! We did not intentionally intrude on your territory.
Pain: Mwah-ha-ha! I'll listen...while I'm gnawing on your bones!

%Micaiah,Agony
Agony: Oooohhhh...a beorc mage. Shiny, sparkly magic makes me soooo scared.
Micaiah: We do not want your treasures, and we mean no ill will. Step back, and we will not harm you.
Agony: If the fire don't roar like a furnace, it don't scare me! Mwah-ha-ha! I'm gonna rip your throat out!

@End
Micaiah: Yune? Yune, where are you? You can come out now!
Sothe: You and that bird. It's...a little strange.
Micaiah: You're just jealous. Wait, I hear something.
Sothe: I can't hear anything.
Micaiah: Someone's singing. It's coming from over there.
Sothe: Micaiah, wait!

Micaiah: You! Hello! Who are you?

Rafiel: I am Rafiel. A voice guided me here. Was it yours?
Micaiah: No. But I heard a voice that guided me here as well. Someone or something may want us both here.
Sothe: You're laguz, aren't you? One of the heron clan, and two of the beast tribe. Right?
Rafiel: That is correct, beorc youth.
Sothe: Your white wings reveal you're of the heron royal family. Are you related to Prince Reyson by any chance?
Rafiel: Reyson? My younger brother? You know of him?
Sothe: You could say that. We served in the same company for a while.
Rafiel: What? You are suggesting that my brother is still alive?
Sothe: Yes. He is still alive. And as far as I know, your father the king and the princess Leanne are as well. Unless something's happened, all three of them live in the royal palace of Gallia, country of the beast tribe.
Rafiel: Unbelievable! My father and sweet Leanne... They're still with me! Oh, goddess! I'm...not alone. Not anymore... ...Ah...
Nailah: Rafiel...
Volug: ...
Micaiah: Hello. And you are?
Nailah: I am Nailah, Queen of Hatari, and this is Volug, my loyal servant. Our kingdom lies far east of here.
Sothe: There's a country on the other side of the desert?
Nailah: As I said. We have just traveled from there. Until we met Rafiel, we didn't know there were countries on this side of the desert. After all, no one had ever crossed the Desert of Death and lived to tell of it. Without Rafiel's guidance, we would never have survived the crossing.
Rafiel: My people, the heron clan of Serenes, were blamed for the murder of Begnion's empress. Begnion mobs rose up in rage and massacred them. I had thought the whole of my clan, my entire race, had been wiped out. I wandered the desert in despair. If not for the queen, I would have died. In Hatari, I vowed to dedicate my life to her. And yet every night for these past three years, a voice has called out to me. Day by day, it has grown stronger... Until the voice led me to you all. Your news brings such joy! Father...Reyson...Leanne... My beloved family... My thanks to thee, O goddess... Ah...
Nailah: Rafiel... You talk too much. Control yourself. You, beorc... What's the best route to Gallia?
Sothe: For a group of laguz, traveling through the Daein countryside would be suicide. It will take you longer, but we could take you as far as Crimea.
Nailah: We would be grateful. By all means, let's travel together. But why go to Crimea? Why not travel directly to Gallia?
Sothe: Entering Gallia by yourselves would be nearly impossible. The man you need to get you into Gallia actually resides in Crimea. That man, Ike, is in contact with King Caineghis and his advisors. There's no doubt in my mind that he's the man you need.
Micaiah: Right. Lord Ike, "hero" of the Crimean Liberation, leader of the Greil Mercenaries, and father of Sothe's children...

@Narration
The history of Tellius is a history of warfare, or so the troubadours sing. It is a history of unending conflict between the beorc and the laguz, a history penned in blood and scarred by mistrust. The beorc fight with the weapons of man--the sword, the axe, the lance, and the magic arts, while the laguz, able to transform into beast, bird, and dragon, are weapons unto themselves. Both were created equally by the goddess, but neither race has ever accepted the other.
The heron prince Rafiel, the wolf queen of Hatari, Nailah, and her vassal, Volug. Is the Dawn Brigade's meeting with these three chance...or a sign of things to come? Micaiah can only wonder.

/***EOF***/
@Intro
Ranulf: Now, our next target is Mugill. Its gate is already sealed, and it looks like they intend to keep it that way. This won't go as easily as our battle in Felirae.
Skrimir: Yaawwwwn... Beorc are all the same. We will run them down, just as before.
Ranulf: Skrimir, please... Listen. Just this once.
Ike: What do you think, Soren?
Soren: The Felirae survivors will have warned Mugill of our advance. That's so obvious, even you must have anticipated it. You don't have a plan?
Skrimir: Do not mock me, beorc boy. Why should I bother with plans? No soldier would cower behind stone walls after being challenged to a battle! We will issue a challenge, and they will meet it. We have no need for plans!
Soren: Do you realize how completely absurd you sound? The enemy did not build the fortress so they could stand outside of it. They will not come out of their own accord.
Skrimir: But-- Those beorc cowards! They will hide from us?! What do we do? I do not know how to fight cowards!
Ranulf: Don't you get it? That's what we're trying to decide! Think, Skrimir. Just try.
Skrimir: No! That's your job, Ranulf! You're my second in command. Think of a way for me to use my strength! Anything else is a waste of time. I'll be training outside. Tell me when you have a "plan." 
Ranulf: Wait, Skrimir!
Soren: ...This is ridiculous. I'm amazed that someone was desperate enough to make that fool a general.
Ranulf: I'm tempted to agree with you on that. But there's a reason he's here.

Ranulf: Never in its history has Gallia invaded another country. We don't have any experience or tactics to fall back on for this. On top of that, our general... well, you've seen it yourself. Skrimir... He doesn't pay attention to details, nor does he strategize. Sadly, it's not just Skrimir. Most laguz are the same. They're arrogant and stubborn. It doesn't even occur to them that they won't be able to power through the beorc forever.
Ike: Why isn't Caineghis leading the army?
Ranulf: It's not an option. We aren't mobile like the bird tribes. Once we leave our lands, it isn't easy for us to get back. We can't take our king away from his domain.
Ike: Well, what about Giffca, then? There have to be other capable generals in Gallia.
Ranulf: Yeah, you'd think General Giffca would lead, but... Giffca has other duties to attend to, so really, that just leaves Skrimir.

Soren: I understand. Laguz choose their leaders based on strength. If Skrimir is to be the next king, this war is the best opportunity for him to learn about strategy.
Ranulf: Exactly. Since that's the case, we need all the help we can get. Please, lend us your wisdom. Without your help, this war's outcome is certain.
Ike: You can count on us, Ranulf.
Titania: We've told you already. We're here to help.
Soren: ...
Titania: Soren, say something!
Ranulf: Well, well. Looks like your strategist isn't fond of laguz yet.
Titania: I'm sorry, Ranulf. he's gotten better, but...
Ike: Soren, Ranulf helped us out. On top of that, he's our client. It's our turn to return the favor, and our job to do it right. Got that?
Soren: ...Fine. But it'll cost you more.
Ranulf: Thanks, all of you. We appreciate the help.
Soren: Give me some time to myself. I'll come up with a plan to get us through this mess.
Ike: Great. We're counting on you, Soren.
Soren: I know. I'll do what I can.

Begnion: Tch! These sub-humans don't know how much trouble they're causing! We can't go anywhere!
Begnion: Tell me about it. Just yesterday, we could've gone out for drinks and had ourselves a merry old time.
Begnion: Fortunately, we have enough food. They'll give up if we hold out long enough.

Mist: Um... Sorry we're late!
Begnion: Who are you? Why are you outside? The city is under lockdown! You need permission to leave your homes!
Mist: What? Well, that's weird. We were told to hand out food to all the watchmen.
Begnion: Wh-what?
Mist: Well, I guess this isn't the place. Should we head back? We don't want the food to spoil...
Begnion: W-wait! Don't go! You don't have to head back. That food is for us. We're sure of it!
Mist: Oh, wonderful! Would you call everyone, then? I'll pass out the food and drinks.

Ike: Looks like the watchmen are all asleep. Great job, everyone.
Soren: The first step is done. Next, we clear out the remaining guards and open the main gate.
Ike: Ranulf and his troops are waiting outside for us. Let's go!

Begnion: Wh-who are you?!
Begnion: Sub-humans! What's going on?! What happened to the lookout?!
Rommit: Stand your ground! Our reinforcements will be here soon. Hold fast until they arrive!

@Visit
Grandmother: The sub-humans are attacking us? Oh no! This can't be happening! You're a mercenary, right? Please, you have to save us! We'll pay, of course!

Woman: AHHHH! A sub-human! You're a sub-human!  P-please! You can have this. Please don't eat me!
Oscar: No, I'm beorc. Just like you. Besides, laguz don't eat people.
Woman: ...
Oscar: It's not a nice rumor to spread around. You should really try to be more thoughtful.
Woman: Are you...Oscar?
Oscar: Huh?
Woman: It's you! Oscar, I'm so glad to see you!
Oscar: Um, excuse me, I have to go... 
Woman: Don't go! Please! Wait! Oh...

Woman: AHHHH! A sub-human! You're a sub-human!  P-please! You can have this. Please don't eat me!
Boyd: Hey, wait a second. When did laguz ever eat beorc? Have you ever actually seen it happen?
Woman: ...
Boyd: Hmph. I doubt that any laguz would eat such a bigoted beorc, even if you asked for it. You make me sick.
Woman: Are you...Boyd?
Boyd: Huh?
Woman: It's you! Boyd, I'm so glad to see you!
Boyd: Uhhhh...
Woman: How you've grown... You look just like your father.
Boyd: No! You've got it all wrong! I don't know anyone by that name. I, um, have to go.
Woman: Don't go! Please! Wait! Oh...

Woman: AHHHH! A sub-human! You're a sub-human!  P-please! You can have this. Please don't eat me!
Rolf: But... I'm not a laguz.
Woman: ...
Rolf: You might not believe me, but laguz don't eat people. I just thought you should know.
Woman: ...I'm sorry. I was just so scared. I didn't mean any harm.
Rolf: Oh... Well, it's all right. As long as you understand now, OK?
Woman: I'm such a coward. I can't believe it...
Rolf: Wait...
Woman: What is it? Is there something on my face?
Rolf: I thought you looked like someone I knew, but...it's just my imagination. I better get going. Good-bye! 
Woman: Hey, wait!
Rolf: Yes?
Woman: Here. Take this.
Rolf: For me? Why?
Woman: I don't know... No reason, I suppose. I just thought you should have it.
Rolf: ...No thanks. 
Woman: What? Wait! Oh...

Woman: AHHHH! A sub-human! You're a sub-human!  P-please! You can have this. Please don't eat me!

@Boss
Rommit: We're under attack! By the goddess, they're fast! Where are our reinforcements?!

%Ike,Rommit
Rommit: When did sub-humans learn to wield swords? Impossible! I can't believe my eyes.
Ike: You underestimate them.

@Boss
Rommit: No... We've lost the gate!

@End
Ike: Are we clear? Good work, everyone. Open the gate!

Gallia: The gate is opening!
Skrimir: Ah, finally! Soldiers of Gallia! Follow me! As long as I lead you in battle, we will always win! Crush any who stand in your way! 
Ranulf: ...Phew. Great timing, Ike.

Ranulf: We won last night's battle thanks to you guys. I appreciate your help.
Ike: You should be thanking Soren. It was all his idea.
Ranulf: Yeah, I'll get right on that. ...Hey, I just remembered. Some of your old friends are here to see you.
Ike: Hm?
???: Hey! Over here! Long time no see, Commander Ike.

Ike: Muston! You came!
Muston: It's great to be doing business with the Greil Mercenaries again. And with you too, my feline friend.
Ranulf: Oh, you called them out here? I thought they just smelled a battle and sensed the profits!
Ike: Well, we can't fight naked, like you laguz can. I also asked Muston to call on some other friends to come join up as well. You'll be seeing an increase in your forces real soon here, Ranulf.
Ranulf: Thanks for everything, Ike. You've done so much for us already, and now you do all this...
Ike: Listen, when we fought Daein, Gallia came to Crimea's aid without any questions. Now we're returning the favor, that's all.
Ranulf: ...All right. In any case, you guys are a great help. Thank you so much.

@Narration
The tactics used by the Gallian army prove effective, and like Felirae before it, Mugill falls to claw and steel. Before Begnion can react, the laguz overwhelm the remaining border defenses and cross into the Telgam region. With both defense keeps overrun, Telgam falls like ripe fruit at the feet of the Laguz Alliance. Inspired by their success, the alliance takes advantage of this momentum to strike toward the very heart of the Begnion Empire.
Dukes Gaddos and Seliora are horrified by the speed of the laguz alliance. Banding together with the landowning nobles of the northern territories, they mass their armies in Seliora to oppose the Gallian assault. Using the Ribahn River, a tributary of the might Miscale, as a defensive front, the Begnion forces make their camps along its western bank in the Sestohl plains.

@Conversation
Rolf: No, no, no! On the battlefield, nothing is more important than precision and skill!
Boyd: Nah. Sorry, kiddo. Power is the most important element.
Rolf: You don’t know what you’re talking about. It’s skill!
Boyd: It’s power! Did you practice being this stupid?
Rolf: Idiot meathead!
Boyd: What?! Take that back, you little brat!
Mist: Stars above, don’t you two ever stop fighting? You’re siblings. Be nice to each other. So, what is it this time?
Rolf: You be the judge, Mist. What’s the most important quality a soldier can have in battle?
Boyd: It’s power, but little Rolfie here insists that it’s skill.
Rolf: If you don’t have skill, you can’t hit your enemies!
Boyd: If you’re weak, you can’t hurt ’em, even if you do hit ’em!
Mist: Oh, you two are ridiculous.
Rolf: Ridiculous?
Boyd: Yeah, whaddya mean by that?!
Mist: Skill and power are both important. Only a bad soldier would focus on one over the other.
Rolf: That’s true, but...
Boyd: You could at least play along a little.
Mist: Play along? I’m sick and tired of having to listen to your silly arguments! Anyhow, I’m here to give you something. Here you go, Boyd.
Boyd: Hey, thanks!
Rolf: What’s that? A shirt?
Mist: Yep. Boyd’s just like Ike. He keeps growing like a beanstalk! If we didn’t constantly make his clothes bigger, he’d run out of things to wear.
Boyd: I’m too broke to buy new ones. Thanks for fixing it up, Mist. I really appreciate it.
Mist: Well, I can’t sew very well, but it gets the job done.
Boyd: That it does!
Rolf: I thought Oscar fixed our clothes...
Mist: He’s been busy, so I offered to take over some of his chores. Rolf, I can alter your clothes, too. If you want, I mean.
Rolf: No thanks. I can do it myself.
Mist: Really? Well, all right, then.
Boyd: Like he needs alterations! I don’t think he’s grown in years. Right, short stuff?
Rolf: Shut up, meathead!
Boyd: Why you little--!
Mist: Hey, cut it out!
Mist: Rolf, wait!
Boyd: Yeah, you’d better run, you moss-headed twerp!
Mist: C’mon, you guys...

Gatrie: ...Oh, and this girl! You’re going to think you’re dreaming! She’s as lovely as the dawn, I’m telling you!
Shinon: All right, just show me already. Where is this sunrise with legs, anyway?
Gatrie: Wait, are you saying you’re actually curious? I never thought I’d see the day.
Shinon: Well, we’re gonna have to hang around these sub-humans for quite a while. A pretty face will help keep me sane.
Lyre: Hey! You! You want to say that again?!
Gatrie: Ahh...!
Shinon: Hey, pussycat. You should’ve dropped by after dinner. I’m a generous man. I would’ve given you some table scraps.
Lyre: T-table scraps?! How dare you! You scum! Who do you think you are? I’m not going to forget that!
Shinon: Aw, kitty wants to play? Sure, I’ve got some time to kill. Let’s dance, hairball!
Lyre: HISSSSSS!!!
Kyza: Stop! Don’t make another move.
Lyre: Kyza! You should hear the garbage he’s saying! He’s the worst man I’ve ever met!
Kyza: He’s a beorc, Lyre. Please accept my apology on behalf of my associate. Please, forgive her. Now you, Lyre. Apologize to him.
Lyre: What?! Why do I have to be the one to apologize?! That guy was the one who started it!
Kyza: Do you want me to report to Captain Ranulf that you couldn’t control your temper and started a fight with a beorc?
Lyre: N-no...
Shinon: I’m waiting... I’d forgive you if you apologized. I am a nice guy, you know.
Lyre: What?! Never! You’re lucky I don’t claw that smile off your face!
Kyza: Lyre! I’m sorry... Maybe some other time. Excuse us.
Shinon: Hmph, I hate it when sub-humans like him act all high and mighty, pretending to be just like us beorc. He’s even worse than the other hairball.
Gatrie: ...Sigh.
Shinon: What, did all that stun you into silence? You look like you’ve been hit in the head.
Gatrie: So, her name is Lyre. What a pretty name! Lyyyyyre...
Shinon: What? Oh, come on! Don’t tell me the girl you were talking about is that pussycat!
Gatrie: Don’t mock me, Shinon! This is serious. I feel it. It’s destiny! That girl and I are fated to be together!
Shinon: You’re chasing after a laguz now? Gatrie, I swear you’d hit on a tree if I dressed it in a skirt. Tell me I’m wrong!

Mia: There you are, Commander! I found ya!
Ike: What can I do for you, Mia?
Mia: What do you think? I only come to you for one thing... Commander! I challenge you!
Ike: Again? Haven’t you had enough?
Mia: Not at all. I was pretty close to beating you, last time. So c’mon! The longer we wait, the less I’m gonna remember about how I got that close!
Ike: You know I’m not going to go easy on you, right? Or on anyone else who comes at me with a sword, for that matter.
Mia: Good! I like it that way! That’s why I love training with you.
Ike: At least you’re getting something out of it. Titania and Mist just complain afterwards.
Mia: Don’t you worry about that! I’ve got the perfect solution.
Ike: What’s that?
Mia: Yoo-hoo! Rhys, over here!
Ike: Oh, I see. Interesting idea.
Mia: He’ll fix me right up if I get hurt. What do you think of that, huh?
Ike: You all right with that, Rhys? I know you don’t like watching allies cut each other up in training.
Rhys: That’s true, but... I think it’s better that I know how the injury happened, rather than having someone just show up and bleed on the floor. It will reduce the shock of seeing all that blood, you know? That’s something I learned the hard way.
Ike: Well, as long as you’re all right with it, I guess it’s fine with me, too.
Mia: That settles it! The scene is set, the arena ready... Prepare yourself, Commander!
Ike: Oh, I already have. Get ready!
Rhys: Just... Please go easy on each other. All right? Did you hear me? Hello?
/***EOF***/
@Opening 
Daein has been reborn. Word of King Pelleas's coronation reaches neighboring
Crimea within days. Crimea itself has spent the past three years rebuilding
from the damage it suffered during the Mad King's War. News that Ashnard's son
now sits on Daein's throne sends waves of unease and worry rippling across the
land.

Alas, this is not the only thing disturbing the people of Crimea during this
time. There is an ever-widening gap emerging between Crimea's noble class and
the nation's young ruler, Queen Elincia.

Crimea lost its king during the Daein invasion, and Elincia is still an
inexperienced ruler. What's more, her very existence was a secret from the
public, and so she came unexpectedly to her succession. Many of Crimea's noble
houses raised their voices in protest against her rule. Elincia's desire for a
long-lasting peace has driven her to strengthen Crimea's ties with the laguz
nation of Gallia, and to renounce Crimea's claim to rule over a defeated Daein.
Her political moderation is seen as a sign of weakness among her critics.

Ike, the young hero who led Crimea to victory in the Mad King's War, was
granted a peerage for his heroism and bravery. The elevation of a common
mercenary to the nobility, however, widened the rift between the aristocracy
and the queen yet further. Perhaps to avoid becoming mired in these power
struggles, Ike renounced his peerage and took his leave of the court.

Yet Ike's actions did little to placate the nobility. They continue to
criticize the queen's every decision, and lay squarely at her feet the blame
for all of Crimea's woes.

@Intro
Aristocrat: So, you have acknowledged Pelleas as the newly crowned king of Daein? Your Majesty, this is beyond the pale!
Elincia: I have not forgotten our war with Daein. Three years is not so long as that. But do not forget... If we allow hatred to rule our hearts, we become prisoners of our past. A lasting peace serves both nations.
Aristocrat: Bravo, Your Majesty, well spoken indeed. Your words paint a picture of idealism rarely seen here at court. However, and I beg your forgiveness, it is quite apparent your grasp of politics remains childishly naïve.
Aristocrat: Abandoning rule over Daein, then reconciling with our most hated enemy... This will not do. The people will soon take their discontent to the streets.
Aristocrat: What's more, why choose Bastian, the count of Fayre, as your envoy? His skills in court are vital to Crimea. To send away such a key figure... Tell me, Your Highness, how exactly do you plan to rule without him?
Lucia: The count of Fayre himself gladly volunteered as a delegate. Her Majesty's decision was only--
Aristocrat: Lady Lucia, still your tongue! You are not Her Majesty. Do not presume to speak for her.
Aristocrat: Yes, Lady Lucia! Please refrain from speaking if you have not been directly addressed. Your familiarity with the queen does not grant you a seat in the royal assembly. Although you may have been raised as a sister to Her Majesty the queen, kindly remember your place!
Lucia: ...You have my apologies.
Aristocrat: And you, General Geoffrey. Does your loyalty to Her Majesty stem only from your unchecked emotions? Those with a taste for gossip are talking. I wonder, have you heard what the help is saying about you?
Geoffrey: What?! I...
Lucia: Geoffrey!
Geoffrey: Rrgh!
Aristocrat: At any rate, growing discontent has brought the royal family of Crimea to a crossroads of sorts. Your Highness... This is all on you.
Aristocrat: Indeed. Your Majesty... Whatever do you intend to do?

???: Queen Elincia!
Elincia: Marcia! How are you today? And what are you doing here?
Marcia: Lucia told me about those no-goodnik nobles and their chest-beating contest, so I thought you could use some cheering up. You weren't in your chambers or the garden, so I guessed you would be out here.
Elincia: Forgive me. I needed some...time to think. I'm sorry to trouble you.
Marcia: Not at all! After everything you've done for me, it's the least I could do. It was nice of you to hire me as a Royal Knight, but hiring my sponge-brained, spine-deprived brother might qualify you for sainthood!
Elincia: Even so, I'm afraid I may also have caused you a great number of hardships.
Marcia: Huh? Oh! The grief I'm getting from the nobles? It's nothing I can't handle. If you think your country has stuffed-shirt windbags for aristocracy, you should see Begnion's! When I was a Pegasus knight there, they had a new shenanigan every week! After that, the Crimean crybabies are no big deal.
Elincia: No, it's my fault, and I'm sorry. I'm so new at all this, even you are affected by my blunders. Sometimes, I think... Maybe I just don't have what it takes to be a queen.
Marcia: That's so not true! Queen Elincia, anyone can strut around in a queen hat and say she's a ruler, but you always out your people first! Look, it's not that you're doing a bad job, it's just everyone's on edge lately, with Daein getting a new king and all. People are worried that Daein'll start another war like the one three years ago, and they're taking it out on you. Just don't let those peacock-wearing nobles bug you, and remember that you don't have to go it alone. You've got friends everywhere.
Elincia: Thank you, Marcia. Your kind words have lifted my spirits.

Elincia: That's right... I'm not alone. I must be strong, for the sake of our people. As the protector of our homeland!

Marcia: Huh? Queen Elincia... What the heck is going on over there?
Elincia: Hmm?

Nealuchi: H-hey! How dare you harass us! Begone, insolent fools! Begone, I say!
Leanne: ...
Nealuchi: Fear not, my lady. This senile old bird will gladly trade his life for your protection.
Begnion: They say nothing is as beautiful as the herons of Serenes... Especially a royal princess! You'll fetch a pretty penny from some lord or other... And our pockets are a little light. Whaddya say, Captain?
Zeffren: Yes, naturally. She should prove to make a fine gift. Seize them...and mind the raven's talons!
Nealuchi: This is unbelievable! Stand back, you unrepentant dogs! Nealuchi does not give in easily! 
Zeffren: Men, silence that cawing raven. Who would pay for an old crow like that, anyway? Leave him.
???: Stop right there!

Zeffren: Tch... Company. How droll.
Marcia: Hey, Begnion dracoknights! Are you lost, or have you just been letting those scaly fleabags do your navigating? What're you doing in Crimea's sky?
Zeffren: ...We've merely strayed a bit in our duties patrolling the border. Do you have a problem with that?
Marcia: You and your flying snakes are in violation of Crimea's sovereignty! Besides, do you have any idea who you're dealing with here, reptile breath?
Elincia: Marcia, stop. We cannot afford to start antagonizing the Begnion army. I am the queen of Crimea...
Marcia: But, Your Majesty! We can't just let these wyvern monkeys run rampant--
Elincia: And we're not going to. As long as they don't realize I'm the queen, we should be fine.

Elincia: Begnion dracoknights... You will only be warned once. Leave this area immediately! I serve the queen of Crimea. Trespassers on Crimean territory will be dealt with. No exceptions.
Zeffren: The queen, she says! The very queen that relied on us, the Begnion Empire, to free her nation. Imperial dracoknights are not frightened by soldiers so weak as Crimean pegasus knights. Listen up! Leave those two alone. It's the Serenes maiden we want. Do not allow her to escape!
Elincia: ...Looks like we'll not talk any sense into them. I suppose we have no choice. Sir Nealuchi! We're here to help you!
Nealuchi: I'll be! It's Her Majesty, Queen Elincia! Fate has smiled upon us! I hate to be a bother, considering it has been so long, but... Your assistance is most appreciated.

@Battle
Haar: Yaaawn... Boy, I'm bushed. Hey, partner, you tired? How's a nap sound? You want to rest your wings a bit?

Haar: ...Huh? We're running late? But I'm sleepy... What did you call me? That wasn't very nice. Overgrown lizard...

Haar: Please tell me that's not what I think it is. Oh, this is perfect. Begnion dracoknights? Just my stinkin' luck.

@Recruit-Talk 
%Marcia,Haar
Marcia: Hey... Look who's here! It's Haar!
Haar: ...Hello, Marcia. I see you're still flying about on that apple-eating hairbag.
Marcia: And you're still asleep at the reins of that foul-smelling... Oh, crackers! I don't have time for your nonsense! Open that one good eye of yours and take a look around, will you? Those Begnion dracoknights have invaded Crimean skies! You've got to help us save the laguz they're trying to kidnap. Well, c'mon, Haar!
Haar: Me? Why? I owe the queen a favor or two, but I'm not one of her soldiers.
Marcia: You... You cad! Does having fought together in the Mad King's War mean nothing to you?
Haar: Well, no, but... Look, I've got a delivery to make, and this cargo's really heavy. Sorry, Marcia. Maybe next time.
Marcia: NEXT TIME? You lizard-loving jerk! Would you really abandon us? What kind of man are you?
Haar: The kind who lives to sleep another day. Well, good luck to you. See you around.
Marcia: Stop! You have to stay and help! Uhm... OK, Haar, hear me out. You were an imperial dracoknight once, right? It's your job to fix this! They're your old comrades--you have to keep them in line!
Haar: Huh? You're not making a lick of sense, girl.
Marcia: Why do I have to make sense? If Jill were in trouble, I bet you'd help her! Please, please, please! C'mon, Haar! You have to help us. You have to!
Haar: ...Is it really all that bad?
Marcia: Yes! They're a tough bunch! And I'm all alone... I don't think I can manage to protect Queen Elincia. Please say you'll help... If only for the safety of the queen...
Haar: ...Oh, fine. I really don't have time for this... But I guess I can lend a hand.
Marcia: Thank you so much! I take back all the mean things I was thinking about you earlier. 
Haar: That girl's nothing but trouble. Well, if we're going to do this, let's get it over with. Up and at 'em, partner!

@Battle-Talk 
%Elincia,Haar
Haar: It's been a while, Queen Elincia.
Elincia: Sir Haar? You are Sir Haar of Daein, correct? What are you doing here?
Haar: That's a question for Marcia, Your Majesty. I was passing through on a delivery run, when she hailed me and pestered me into helping you.
Elincia: What can I say? I'm terribly sorry. I know this is none of your affair, but...
Haar: You know, I always thought you were too humble for royalty. I'm surprised your underlings don't run roughshod all over you.
Elincia: I...I'm sorry.
Haar: Hey, it's no skin off my nose. Besides, anyone who's got the guts to pick a fight with the empire's OK in my book.
Elincia: Sir Haar, I--
Haar: Yeah, I got it. You can't let these scum know you're actually the queen. International relations and all that other political stuff, right? I tell you what. I'll keep your secret and treat you like a regular soldier. That means I'm not going to be watching your back, though, so you're going to have to take care of yourself.
Elincia: I understand. Thank you.

@Boss
Zeffren: Now, begone with you! The skies and the heron are ours! I can't wait to see your corpse smashed across Crimea's landscape!

%Haar,Zeffren
Haar: Well... If it isn't Zeffren. What brings the dracoknights into Crimean skies?
Zeffren: Haar?!
Haar: Why couldn't you just stay on patrol? Saw a pretty little heron and just had to have her, is that it? I never could decide if you were more greedy or more corrupt. Stupid was never in question, though.
Zeffren: Who do you think you are?! You're a traitor, just like Shiharam! The dracoknights spit on your name!
Haar: ...Do they now? Well, here's your chance to try the real thing.

%Elincia,Zeffren
Zeffren: You... You Crimeans seriously believe you can withstand the might of Begnion?!
Elincia: Crimea takes this sort of encroachment seriously. We will not overlook invaders in our domain. Release your weapons, and apologize for your discourtesy... Only then will we lower our own.
Zeffren: You have quite a mouth on you... I won't be addressed in that tone by anyone. It's time to end this farce.

@Boss
Zeffren: Ugh... Aaaaaaaagghh!

@End
Marcia: Yeah, you run, dragonbackers! And don't ever come back to Crimea!

Elincia: Princess Leanne, it's a pleasure to see you again. I'm sorry you had to go through all that. Are you hurt?
Leanne: ...
Nealuchi: Lady Leanne is very grateful for your help with those ruffians and is quite delighted to see you again, Your Majesty. Frankly, I don't think these old bones would have been up to the task of protecting the princess without your help.
Elincia: The most important thing is that you're both safe, Sir Nealuchi. But... What brings you here? As far as I knew, the both of you were residing in Gallia...
Leanne: ....
Nealuchi: It is imperative that my lady sees General Ike as soon as possible. We were traveling to the royal palace in Melior for that very purpose.
Elincia: That's unfortunate. Ike left Melior more than half a year ago. After that, rumor has it that he reorganized the Greil Mercenaries... Now, no one seems to know where they are.
Nealuchi: What?! This is most unexpected. What are we supposed to do now?
Elincia: Sir Ike isn't here, but... Since you've traveled all this way to Crimea, would you like to visit the royal court? I would be happy to investigate the whereabouts of the Greil Mercenaries during your stay.
Nealuchi: Well... We don't want to be a bother, but it would be very kind of you.
Elincia: To be honest, there are matters about which I must speak with Sir Ike myself. And regardless, we're always delighted to have such splendid guests as yourselves. I must tell you, however--and I am ashamed to say it--there is unrest among certain circles here in Crimea. I hope nothing will happen to disturb your visit with us.
Nealuchi: Un-unrest...you say?
Elincia: Yes. I trust, however, my protection will be enough to keep you from harm's way.

@Narration
Queen Elincia encounters and defeats a wing of Begnion dracoknights trespassing in Crimean skies. After rescuing Chamberlain Nealuchi and Princess Leanne, she invites them to be her guests at the royal court. While Elincia's show of loyalty to her laguz allies causes an uproar among the nobles at court, they are aware that the heron princess is under the mutual protection of the mighty laguz hawk king and raven king. Because of this, there is no public show of distaste.
However, dissatisfaction with Elincia's rule now spreads from a single faction to a larger group. Crimea's unity is slowly rotting from within. This discord begins to be felt even in country hamlets like the farming village of Ohma.

/***EOF***/
@Dialogue 
Sothe: Well, I guess this is over. We'd better be on our way.
Ike: Are you going back to Daein?
Micaiah: Yes. Everyone's waiting for us.
Sothe: We have to start rebuilding all over again. Hopefully, this will be the last time.
Ike: Don't say "hopefully." Make it the last time. If anyone can do it, you two can.
Sothe: I don't doubt it. But thanks for the vote of confidence.
Micaiah: Thank you, Ike. I won't ever forget you.

^locked
Pelleas: I'm sorry.
Almedha: But that's... I don't believe you! Because, see, my dear, you have the mark! Wait. Don't you have a mark?
Pelleas: No, Mother. Lady Almehda, is that the reason you thought me to be your son?
Almedha: I...
Pelleas: And that is the reason why Izuka chose me out of all the children at that orphanage.
Almedha: Stop! This is impossible! You are my son. I am your mother, and I say so!
Pelleas: Lady Almedha, your only memories of your son were of him as a baby. You yourself said so. In other words, he already had a mark, even as a child.
Almedha: Yes, that's so. What of it?
Pelleas: This mark--my mark, here--is called the "Spirits' Protection." When I was thirteen, I chose to make a pact with the spirits.
Almedha: What?!
Pelleas: When I learned that you were one of the dragon clan, I began to doubt. And slowly my doubt turned to certainty. I'm sorry, Lady Almedha. I'm sorry that, though it was never my intent, I ended up deceiving you. I'm sorry, but I am not your son.
Almedha: P-Pelleas...
Pelleas: But still... I was happy. It was fleeting, but... I knew the feeling of a mother's love. You have my thanks.
Almedha: I... Ah...sniff...
^end

Caineghis: Ah, Ike. Your work out there was superb.
Ike: Hey, you aren't quite over the hill yet yourself. You know, I always wanted to go one-on-one with you, just once.
Caineghis: Hah. I would have expected you'd had your fill of fighting.
Ike: I've had enough of kill-or-be-killed to last me a lifetime. But something simpler, some way of testing our respective strengths...
Caineghis: You mean controlled matches, with all the little rules they have. In a peaceful world, we need such things. Especially we laguz. Without a fight now and then, we go a bit strange in the head.
Ike: That's the honest truth. I'd rather try to order a river to change course than stop a bunch of rampaging laguz!

Sanaki: Wait... Sister!
Sanaki: You're my older sister, aren't you?
Micaiah: What do you mean?
Sanaki: It makes sense. All the pieces fit. The galdr of release... The goddess Yune's voice...
Micaiah: It's true. Inside the tower, I heard the voices of many hearts, and I knew. I am descended from Lehran and Altina. Misaha, the former apostle, was my grandmother.
Sanaki: Yes, I thought so. In that case, my sister, please consider staying in Begnion. With your power and charisma, you could do so much good here.
Micaiah: No, I'm afraid I can't.
Sanaki: Wh-why not?
Micaiah: Daein is my home, and Daein needs me to help it heal and rebuild. Not Begnion.
Sanaki: But Begnion--
Micaiah: Begnion has you, Empress. You will be a just ruler. Make your country proud to have you.
Sanaki: Will I...never see you again?
Micaiah: Hardly. I think that what our countries need now is a sense of family and friendship. I ask that you sign a treaty of alliance with Daein and announce that we are equals.
Sanaki: I will! Of course! Once things settle down in both of our countries, that will be the first thing I do...Sister!
Micaiah: Thank you, Empress Sanaki. ...My dear little sister.

Ike: Will you be heading back to Gallia first?
Tibarn: We'll stop by Gallia, then wing straight on to Serenes.
Ike: Serenes? Why there?
Reyson: The Empress Sanaki has kept her promise. Serenes will be formally ceded back to us. She said we may return immediately.
Ike: Ah, I see. That's good to hear.
Tibarn: Sometimes birds change their feathers. The hawks, the herons, even the ravens. We're thinking we'll all settle down together.
Reyson: All this time, we've sorted ourselves by our ways of thinking and seeing and living. If we can respect each other's opinions and learn to compromise, we can learn to live together without strife.
Ike: I don't think it will be that easy, but it still ought to be simpler than getting beorc and laguz to treat each other decently. You set a good example, Reyson.
Tibarn: All the major issues look like they'll be handled soon. The only thing we can't agree on is hunting and eating meat.
Reyson: The forest creatures are off-limits! Needless displays of violence as well. You know we will not budge on that.
Tibarn: Tell me... Have you ever heard of a vegetarian hawk? Or a raptor that doesn't scream victoriously at the skies after a kill?
Ike: Meat, huh? That's a thorny problem...

Ike: Well, Your Majesty. Shall we be off?
Elincia: Yes, let us. To Crimea. To our homeland.

^locked 
Almedha: You are Ike, of the Greil Mercenaries?
Ike: And you're the dowager queen of Daein. I heard some of what you've gone through. I'm glad that you're safe.
Almedha: Ah, indeed.
Ike: In light of that... Can I do anything for you?
Almedha: I think not. I think I have seen enough.
Ike: As you wish. Well then, Lady Almedha, Prince Kurthnaga. Take care of yourselves.
Kurthnaga: Yes. And you as well. I know we shall meet again!
Kurthnaga: Are you satisfied, my sister? You wished so strongly to meet with General Ike.
Almedha: I only did so because Pelleas said... He said that it would be wise if I were to meet with him.
Kurthnaga: Did he say why?
Almedha: "That child," he said. It was the last gift he could give me. He wouldn't say anything more.
Kurthnaga: A gift? By meeting General Ike?
Almedha: What about that beorc could possibly be... Wait... Ah! Wait! Wait, stop a moment!
Kurthnaga: Sister!?
Soren: Yes? You needed something?
Almedha: You are... What is your name?
Soren: Soren.
Almedha: I-I see. That...that is a fine name.
Soren: Thank you...?
Almedha: You're welcome.
Soren: Is that all?
Almedha: Ah, yes, yes. Pardon me. Calling out to you like that... I was confused.
Soren: Don't let it trouble you. If you'll excuse me.
Almedha: I don't believe it.
Kurthnaga: That boy is the staff officer for the Greil Mercenaries. What made you call out to him like that?
Almedha: I...
Kurthnaga: Sister?
Almedha: Because I have lost the power of my birthright, I thought... Maybe I wouldn't be able to... That I might not be able to recognize my own child. But when her own true son stands before her, no mother could fail to know. Oh, my son, you've lived and grown strong.
Kurthnaga: You can't mean... Soren is your son?
^end

^locked 
Lehran: Welcome home.
???: Could it be that you were here all this time?
Lehran: Alas, no, I am sorry to say. But for several days, I've somehow felt as though you would soon return.
Ashunera: Well, I'm home. And I'm glad to see you again, Lehran.
Lehran: And I am glad to see you as well, Goddess Ashunera.
Ashunera: How long has it been? A hundred years? Five hundred?
Lehran: About twelve hundred years.
Ashunera: I see. For mortals, that is many, many lives.
Lehran: Yes. The peace we once had is on the verge of crumbling again.
Ashunera: That is unfortunate. The miasma of war is beginning to shroud the world. However, I shall not again be frightened. As one born of the hopes of man I shall protect this world.
Lehran: Yes.
Ashunera: Lehran. I've missed your songs. Would you sing for me now?
Lehran: I...I no longer...
Ashunera: Well, then I will sing. And you may sing with me. Is that all right?
Lehran: ...Yes.
^end

@Narration 
In days long past, a young man strode the lands of Tellius.

He was simple yet true, his deeds brave and noble. He reunited two races long at war, and healed the heart of a goddess long gone mad. Ask any you meet be they young or old, beorc or laguz, of a hero named Ike and you'll receive a warm smile and a tale or two of faith, courage, and honesty.
/***EOF***/
@Dialogue
Nailah: A blood pact? A piece of parchment forced you into this hopeless war?
Rafiel: How terrible... I'm sorry for what you've been put through, Micaiah.
Tauroneo: The uprising in the empire continues. The apostle's people await her return as they fight against the senate. Casualties mount each day... We know how urgently the apostle's army needs to reach the empire. However, if we let their army pass through Daein, the senate will surely invoke the blood pact and destroy us.
Rafiel: But why haven't you told the apostle's army all this? Surely an alliance between your army and theirs could overcome the senate!
Tauroneo: Attacking the senate is not an option for us. If it were, we would have marched against them when this all started. If we were to side with Ike, the senate would use the curse against us. The death of the senate will not stop the curse.
Sothe: No matter what happens, the end result remains the same: the obliteration of Daein.
Rafiel: What tragedy... Is there any hope for Daein at all?
Micaiah: There is... One person who holds a glimmer of hope for all of us.

^start
Micaiah: Queen Almedha! Queen Almedha... What do you know about the blood pact? You know some thing, don’t you? I saw the look on your face... You noticed something even before Pelleas told us about the pact. If there’s something you know that we don’t, please tell us!
Almedha: Heh heh...hmph...
Micaiah: L-Lady Almedha?
Almedha: Haven’t... Haven’t you done enough already? It’s done, finished. Nothing matters anymore...There’s nothing we can do. My Pelleas... My Pelleas is...
Kurthnaga: Almedha! Get ahold of yourself!
Almedha: Kurth?
Kurthnaga: I can’t pretend that I know what you’re going through, but, for Pelleas’s sake, you must control yourself. Remember that your son made his final sacrifice in order to protect the people of Daein! Honor his memory now and help us.
Almedha: ...Sniff... You’re right, Kurth. I’ll try.
Micaiah: Oh, thank you, Lady Almedha! Now, what can you tell us about the blood pact?
Almedha: ...In the Begnion era, year 626, a terrible plague swept through Daein, killing over a thousand people.
Tauroneo: I remember the horror of that disease. King Ashnard took the throne after the plague killed most of the royal family, including his father.The tragedy is still fresh in my mind.
Almedha: That was no disease. It was the curse of a blood pact.
Micaiah: What?!
Almedha: It was all plotted by my husband in a bid to claim the throne of Daein. Ashnard tricked his father into signing a blood pact with a traveling wise man. Ashnard convinced the king that he was signing a contract to procure the services of the wise man, which was true, in a fashion. With the pact signed, Ashnard had the wise man invoke the curse. My husband looked on in triumph as the royal family began to wither. The power of the curse killed every royal in line for the throne. It was brilliant. With no one to block his way to the throne, Ashnard executed his master stroke. He killed his father and took the crown from his head.
Micaiah: King Ashnard killed his own father? The king of Daein?! And what about the others? A thousand people died for his insane plot!
Almedha: There’s no point in dwelling on old wounds. Besides, the peasants didn’t matter. They had no vision. Ashnard, on the other hand... What’s important is what happened after the king’s death. Ashnard wasn’t cursed by the blood pact.
Micaiah: He wasn’t cursed? How is that possible?
Almedha: In order to break the curse of the blood pact, two conditions must be met. The destruction of the document itself, and the death of the one bound to it. Either condition by itself is not enough. I watched it happen. Ashnard killed his father, then tore apart the pact. And before my eyes, the mark of the pact faded from the dead king’s arm.
Almedha: The destruction of the document, and the death of the one bound...
Micaiah: How could you, Almedha? How could you not tell us? You knew all along--
Almedha: Because I was terrified! I knew that once you found out the truth, you would butcher my dear son to save your doomed country! I would have done anything to save my Pelleas... That’s why I didn’t say anything... How could I? In the end, though...it wasn’t enough.
Kurthnaga: Almedha, you are stronger than this. You were always the brave one when we were young.
Almedha: Huh?
Kurthnaga: I know you grieve, but grieving will not bring Pelleas back. Now is the time when you must be strong. To put Pelleas’s spirit to rest, help carry out his dying wish, and ensure the safety of his homeland.
Almedha: But he was... He was everything to me... How can I go on without him?
Kurthnaga: I am still here, dear sister. You still have family.
Micaiah: Sister? Lady Almedha is your sister?
Kurthnaga: I received your message, my sister, and have come to help. Please, Almedha, allow me to protect Daein for you and for Pelleas. Do not lose hope. You are not alone anymore and never shall be again.
Almedha: Oh, Kurthnaga, thank you! I’m so sorry for everything I put you and Father through... I’m so sorry...

Micaiah: Queen Almedha! Queen Almedha... What do you know about the blood pact? You know something, don't you? I saw the look on your face... You noticed something even before Pelleas told us about the pact. If there's something you know that we don't, please tell us!
Almedha: I... I know nothing...
Pelleas: Mother... Please tell the truth.
Almedha: ...
Pelleas: Mother, if you can't help us, then there's no hope for Daein. I guess we were right... We have no choice but to wager my life.
Almedha: Pe-Pelleas! Wait! Just wait! I'm going to tell you something... But you mustn't tell the others. In the Begnion era, year 626, a terrible plague swept through Daein, killing over a thousand people.
Pelleas: Yes, including nearly the entire royal family. Those who had ruled and those destined to do so--none were spared except Ashnard, who ascended the throne in the wake of it all. I've heard that tragic story for as long as I can remember.
Almedha: That was no disease. It was the curse of a blood pact.
Pelleas: What?!
Almedha: It was all plotted by my husband in a bid to claim the throne of Daein. Ashnard tricked his father into signing a blood pact with a traveling wise man. Ashnard convinced the king that he was signing a contract to procure the services of the wise man, which was true, in a fashion. With the pact signed, Ashnard had the wise man invoke the curse. My husband looked on in triumph as the royal family began to wither. The power of the curse killed every royal in line for the throne. It was brilliant. With no one to block his way to the throne, Ashnard executed his master stroke. He killed his father and took the crown from his head. What's important is that, after killing his father, Ashnard was not cursed himself.
Micaiah: He broke the pact's curse?
Almedha: In order to break the curse of the blood pact, two conditions must be met. The destruction of the document itself, and the death of the one bound to it. Either condition by itself is not enough. I watched it happen. Ashnard killed his father, then tore apart the pact. And before my eyes, the mark of the pact faded from the dead king's arm.
Pelleas: The destruction of the document, and the death of the one bound...
Micaiah: How could you, Almedha? How could you not tell us? You knew all along--
Almedha: Because I was terrified! I knew that once you found out the truth, you would butcher my dear son to save your doomed country! I would rather watch all of Daein perish than lose my Pelleas...
Pelleas: Mother... Thank you. Thank you for telling us. It makes my decision much easier. I will save Daein...
Almedha: No! I won't let you die! You are all I have left in this world, Pelleas! If you only knew how much I've sacrificed for you... I never should have said anything. I can't bear to lose you again, Pelleas... Please don't die.
Pelleas: I'm sorry, Mother. My mind is made up. This has to happen.
Almedha: Then I shall die as well! I will take my own life, if necessary!
Pelleas: Mother?!
Micaiah: ...Kurth?
Kurthnaga: Stop! Please, Sister. You must calm down.
Pelleas: Sister?
Almedha: Oh, Kurth... Don't you understand? I can't feel this way any longer!
Kurthnaga: I do understand, Almedha...more than you realize. Everyone, as you've heard, there are two conditions to breaking the blood pact: the destruction of the physical document and the death of the pact-maker. However, it takes two parties to make a pact.
Micaiah: Oh...I see.
Almedha: Yes! Ashnard once told me he'd considered killing the man who created his father's blood pact instead! I didn't know why until now... This means that we could kill the senator who signed the pact instead of Pelleas!
Micaiah: It's possible, but very difficult. We'll need not only to hunt down the senator, but find the document, with no idea where to start. Daein could be annihilated in the time it would take to look.
Almedha: Oh, Kurth! Please, please save my Pelleas! I need your help! Help me protect Daein until we get our chance to break the blood pact! I no longer have any power of my own. You're my only hope now, little brother. Please, Kurth...
Kurthnaga: Of course, my dear sister. That is why I came when you called me. I shall protect Daein for you and for Pelleas. So please. Put your mind at ease.
Almedha: Oh, Kurth, thank you! I'm so sorry for everything I put you and Father through... I'm so sorry...
^end

Ena: Sir Ike... I've just received a very disturbing message from Prince Kurthnaga.
Ike: Don't tell me... No luck, right?
Ena: It is far worse than that. Prince Kurthnaga has decided to fight for Daein.
Ike: What?! Why? He was supposed to stop them from fighting! And now he wants to fight us instead?! Oh, this is just perfect!
Ena: He has a good reason to side with them, but... I'm afraid I cannot tell you why.
Ike: Wonderful! So we still have to fight Daein, and they've added one of the supposedly neutral dragons of Goldoa to their army?
Ena: I'm sorry, Ike. I will try to reason with Prince Kurth again. It was the prince's wish to come here... King Dheginsea knows nothing of this visit. Be that as it may, for a prince of the dragon tribe to stand on a battlefield... It is unacceptable. I must talk him out of it.



Ike: I'm sorry, Ena. I know you're doing your best to... Wait, are you talking to him with that stone?
Ena: Yes. We dragons have the power to sense the presence of our allies. If that ally is someone we care for very much, then we can communicate telepathically. With the sending stone, we can use this telepathy across extreme distances.

Ena: I just hope he listens to me. We can't afford to fuel the flames of the Fire Emblem.
Ike: It's almost dawn. Do what you can to convince the prince to stay out of this. I would've preferred to avoid a fight, but once again Micaiah isn't giving us much of a choice.
Ena: I will do my best, Sir Ike.

@Intro
Daein: The apostle's army has left the castle!
Micaiah: All right. Order all units to stand by until they encounter the enemy forces.

Micaiah: Everyone! There is still hope for Daein! We are the key to that hope! But first, we must win this battle!

Micaiah: Why are you still here? You must return to the apostle's army before the battle begins!
Nailah: That army has enough troops. I think you could use some help on your side.
Rafiel: Reyson and Leanne both fight for the people they love. I shall do the same, even if that means fighting against them. I shall fight for Daein on your behalf.
Micaiah: Thank you both. It means a lot to me. But are you sure? After all, this seems like a hopeless battle.
Nailah: It's too soon for you to give up hope. You have the dragon prince of Goldoa on your side. That counts for something.
Micaiah: Kurth is the prince of Goldoa? So, he is a laguz...
Nailah: Not just a laguz. He is a black dragon. The black dragons are the strongest of all the laguz tribes. We have a chance.
Micaiah: If Queen Almedha's brother is a black dragon...that means the queen herself must also be a laguz!
Sothe: Seems like a complicated mess to me. Just the same, he is a powerful ally.
Micaiah: You're right. If we can stand our ground, there will be hope for another day. Each day that Daein survives is another day we'll have earned for it!

Skrimir: Onward, my brothers! Hold nothing back! We must end this battle quickly! 

Janaff: Whoa, that's a problem... Uh, guys? It looks like Prince Rafiel is fighting for the other side. What do we do now?
Ulki: It is his choice. We can't do anything about it.
Tibarn: Well, his choice or not, it makes things a lot more complicated for us.
Reyson: He has sided with our enemies? Has he lost his mind? My dear, stupid brother...
Janaff: Prince! What are you doing here? What about the medallion?1 Weren't you supposed to be--
Reyson: Leanne is watching over it now.
Tibarn: Either we convince Rafiel to come back to our side, or we drag his unconscious backside over here. Got that?
Janaff: Yes, Your Majesty!

Ena: Prince Kurthnaga...
Ike: what will you do now, Ena? Are you going over to the other side, too?
Ena: King Dheginsea has expressly forbidden us from choosing sides. The dragon tribe must not fight. I shall attempt to stop the prince.
Ike: Do what you need to do. Just be careful out there, all right?
Ena: Yes, Sir Ike.

Ike: Elincia, please stay back. If a chance for a peace talk arises, I want you to mediate the whole show.
Elincia: I understand. Please be safe. 
Ike: OK, everyone, get moving! Let's get this mess over with.

@Recruit-Battle
Zihark: There's no time to dwell on our sorrow.

Zihark: I must not think... The enemy in front of me is the only thing I will focus on.

%Zihark,Ike
Zihark: Ike, I'm sorry, I... I must raise my sword against you.
Ike: Zihark, what's going on here? Why do you sound so desperate? This isn't like you at all!
Zihark: I'll take my secret to the grave. Besides, you know I don't like to complain. At your ready, Commander.

@Battle-Talk 
%Zihark,Micaiah
Zihark: Micaiah! Pull back your troops! We don’t want to fight you. There’s got to be a way to stop all this!
Micaiah: I can’t, and there isn’t. We have to keep fighting. Until the last of us falls, we have no choice.
Zihark: What’s happened to you all?! Why get yourselves into such a hopeless war? Why did you do those horrible things in the valley? I know all of this must have a reason! Please tell me... Tell me how my country lost its soul.
Micaiah: I’ve nothing to say to you.
Zihark: I see. No words to waste on a deserter like me, is that it? I’m sorry I wasted your time.
Micaiah: Zihark--
Zihark: No, please... Just know that I could never draw steel against you. Good-bye, Micaiah.
Micaiah: I... I’m so sorry, Zihark. I can’t get you involved in this, too.

%Jill,Micaiah
Jill: Lady Micaiah! Why do you insist on continuing this fight?!
Micaiah: Jill...
Jill: Even now, Daein blood spills on the battlefield. You must stop this! There must be another way!
Micaiah: I can’t, and there isn’t. We have to keep fighting. Until the last of us falls, we have no choice.
Jill: Please! Listen to what I’m--
Micaiah: Apostle’s dracoknight. Leave here immediately. I warn you only once. Next time, I will attack!
Jill: Lady Micaiah! Please, I beg of you! Lady Micaiah!

%Reyson,Micaiah
Reyson: The Maiden of Dawn... Lady Micaiah. I would speak with you. You are not an evil person. I already know that.
Micaiah: ...
Reyson: That is why I am puzzled. Why do you continue to fight? Would you have your country destroyed like this?
Micaiah: ...
Reyson: Please, say something. You have the power to end all of this violence. Say the word, I beg you!
Micaiah: Please go. The people of the Serenes are not safe from the chaos set loose upon us. This place isn’t safe for you. Take Rafiel with you and leave the battlefield as soon as you can.
Reyson: That’s all you have to say? Your men die all around you, while you stand here giving me orders? So be it.

@Recruit-Battle
Micaiah: What’s that? Who’s talking?

Micaiah: Ungh...
Sothe: Micaiah! Micaiah, are you all right?!
Micaiah: So... Sothe...
Sothe: Can you hear me? Then let’s pull back! You’re in no condition to fight!
Micaiah: ...

%Ike,Micaiah
Micaiah: I can hear it... It’s very close...
Ike: Hey, what’s wrong with you? You don’t look well...
Micaiah: ...What? Oh, um... I’m fine.
Ike: Are you? How much good can you do your men if you can hardly see straight? Pull your troops back, Micaiah.
Micaiah: ...There’s no need. I will stay here with everyone else and fight to the end!
Ike: You’re very brave, Micaiah, but sometimes bravery isn’t enough to win the battle.

@Recruit-Battle 
Sothe: I’m sorry, but I can’t stop now. Winning is the only way we’ll survive this.

Sothe: They just keep coming at us... We have to pull back. We’ll regroup and strike them again later.

%Ike,Sothe
Ike: Good-bye, Sothe.
Sothe: Commander.

%Astrid,Sothe
Astrid: Oh... It’s you, Sothe. I’d sincerely hoped we wouldn’t meet like this.
Sothe: Me too, Astrid.
Astrid: I knew you were with the Daein army, but I hoped that, if I didn’t see you, I could pretend it wasn’t true. Now, however, I’m glad I saw you. How you have grown. You look like a true soldier now.
Sothe: ...I’m not the only one who’s grown. You look every bit the true knight now, Astrid.
Astrid: You really think so? Thank you, Sothe. That means a lot to me.
Sothe: I know the answer, but I still have to ask. Will you pull back? We don’t really have to do this, do we?
Astrid: I was about to ask you the same thing. I don’t want to fight you, Sothe. Please fall back.
Sothe: ...I thought as much. Let’s get started. I’m sorry, Astrid.
Astrid: I am sorry as well, Sothe.

%Ilyana,Sothe
Ilyana: Hello, Sothe. Shall we get started?
Sothe: Uh, I thought you’d hesitate to fight me. I’m... a little surprised.
Ilyana: You’ve made your choice, Sothe, and I’ve made mine. It’s really that simple, isn’t it? Anyway, I’m starving. If I don’t eat something soon, I think I’ll pass out...
Sothe: Well, we can’t have that. Ready when you are, Ilyana.

%Jill,Sothe
Jill: Sothe, I--
Sothe: Let’s cut the small talk, Jill. We both fight for the side we believe in. There’s no point in talking things over. Let’s finish this.
Jill: You’re right... Let’s just get past this.

%Zihark,Sothe
Sothe: I’ll forget about our time together during the Mad King’s War and the Daein Emancipation. You should do the same. We should fight without reservation and without sentiment.
Zihark: I agree, Sothe. I do hope you survive, for Micaiah’s sake. But you’ll have to defeat me first.

@Battle-Talk 
%Zihark,Tauroneo
Zihark: General Tauroneo! Finally, I found you! Please, tell me what happened to Daein! Why are you fighting?
Tauroneo: There is nothing to say. We have parted ways. That is all.
Zihark: What are you trying to hide?! Daein has now committed atrocities on par with those committed by Ashnard! I want to know why you’d continue to fight a war like this!
Tauroneo: And I say that there is no need for you to know. Mercenary Zihark, return to your allies in the apostle’s army.
Zihark: I will find out what’s going on here! If my country can’t save itself, then I’LL save it! But I’ll never raise my sword against you. Good-bye for now, General. I hope our next meeting goes better.
Tauroneo: ...Forgive me.

%Jill,Tauroneo
Jill: General Tauroneo!
Tauroneo: Jill... I will tell you one thing. I do not blame you for leaving Daein. You must live by your own beliefs. That is what your father would have wanted.
Jill: But--
Tauroneo: I must live by my principles as well. You cannot convince me to betray my king and countrymen. I have done so once in the past, but that was long ago. Now, I intend to fight for my country to the end.
Jill: I understand... General.

@Recruit-Battle
Tauroneo: I am Tauroneo, a general of Daein!

Tauroneo: Ah, so we meet again. I won’t have mercy on you!

Tauroneo: As I expected. They’re too strong... We’ll need more drastic methods... And this injury is too deep... I have to retreat.

%Ike,Tauroneo
Tauroneo: General Ike, of the apostle’s army! I challenge you to a duel!
Ike: ...All right.
Tauroneo: I see so much of him in you... your stance, your spirit, the expression on your face... You remind me so much of Gawain. Let’s see if your swordsmanship matches your father’s!
Ike: Test me. You knew my father well. Tell me how I measure up.

%Rolf,Tauroneo
Tauroneo: Rolf? Is that you? How you’ve grown. Kids always grow up so fast.
Rolf: General Tauroneo... You’re still fighting in the Daein army? Let’s not do this. No matter how strong you are, Daein can’t win this war, and I don’t wanna hurt you.
Tauroneo: You’re right, Rolf. Daein can’t win. In most ways, we’ve already lost everything. But I must fight on. Rolf, you stand on the battlefield as a man now. I won’t hold back. You shouldn’t either. Show me what you’ve learned in the last three years.
Rolf: OK, General, if you really wanna. But, just to tell you... Uncle Shinon’s been teaching me, so this might sting...

%Calill,Tauroneo
Tauroneo: Is that you, Calill? You look well! I heard you married Largo and opened a pub. How is Largo these days?
Calill: That fool went and lost his arm in an accident. No more fighting for him, that’s for sure.
Tauroneo: Oh! Well, uh, I’m sorry to hear that.
Calill: Oh, but he’s doing fine otherwise. A tough one, that man. Our business is doing great, and he’s married to the best woman in the world! That’s worth an arm or two, I’d say.
Tauroneo: Indeed. I’m glad you two are happy.
Calill: How about you, General? I told Largo that I’d visit you in Daein and see how you were doing.
Tauroneo: Me? I just... I only wish to meet a glorious end on the battlefield, fit for a general of Daein.
Calill: Mmm-hmm. Men are so full of it. I mean, honestly, are you even listening to how stupid that sounds?
Tauroneo: Wh-what do you mean--
Calill: What I mean is that you’re stupid. You have people who care for you on both sides of this suicidal battle. And here you are, in the thick of things, looking to throw your life away! You selfish fool! Looks like I’ll have to do this myself. I’m taking you back with me, General. The hard way.
Tauroneo: You have an interesting way of making your point.

%Ilyana,Tauroneo
Ilyana: ...Sigh.
Tauroneo: Taking a break on the battlefield? Things don’t seem to rattle you, Ilyana.
Ilyana: I’m not taking a break. I’m just sad I have to fight against you, General. Well, that, and I’m really, really hungry right now...
Tauroneo: I should’ve known. Let’s get this over with so you can get back and have something to eat.
Ilyana: ...General Tauroneo, I hope we can meet again under different circumstances.
Tauroneo: I hope so as well, Ilyana. We’ll have to see what happens.

%Zihark,Tauroneo
Tauroneo: What a strange twist of fate that we would end up facing off against one another.
Zihark: Agreed. It seems that fate is cruel in lots of ways lately.
Tauroneo: Daein owes you, Zihark. Your efforts liberated our country. For that, you will always have our thanks. However, Daein cannot retreat from this war. We may face old friends as our enemies, but we cannot stop.
Zihark: ...
Tauroneo: I will not apologize for this war, and I cannot explain it to you. You should do what you must. We are two soldiers now, facing off against each other on the battlefield.
Zihark: ...Very well. I hope we’ll get to talk more about this later, General.

%Jill,Tauroneo
Tauroneo: Jill...
Jill: General Tauroneo...
Tauroneo: How tragic that we meet again as enemies. It was hard enough for me the first time.
Jill: I’m sorry... I--
Tauroneo: Raise your head. Stand tall.
Jill: ...
Tauroneo: If you haven’t done anything to disgrace your family’s name, do not cast your eyes away from anyone.
Jill: I have not disgraced anything. I joined this army so I could avoid that.
Tauroneo: I know Jill. I’m envious of you. But this is the only way it can end.

@Recruit-Battle
Nailah: Being outnumbered isn’t such a bad thing. At the very least, I’ll get a good workout.

Nailah: The laguz of the west. I’ve been itching to test your mettle.

Nailah: ... Maybe... I should not have been so cocky...
Rafiel: Queen?!
Nailah: Stop squawking, Rafiel, I’ll be all right. ... It makes me happy that you worry for me as you do. But I’ll have to retreat for now.

%Ike,Nailah
Ike: Hold on a second! When did you decide to side with them?
Nailah: I spoke to Micaiah. She made me see her side of the conflict. Besides, she needed the extra help.
Ike: She must be an amazing talker. What did she say?
Nailah: I could tell you, but you wouldn’t really understand. The situation is quite complicated. But Daein has no way out. One side or the other will be sacrificed.
Ike: Queen Nailah...
Nailah: Don’t worry your pretty head about it, beorc hero. You and I are warriors--you of the sword and I of the fang. We understand what to do now.
Ike: Are you...enjoying yourself?
Nailah: If we can’t avoid fighting, we might as well enjoy it, agreed? Besides, I’ve been curious about your swordsmanship. You seem strong, for a beorc. Show me what you can do.
Ike: How could I say no to that? Ready when you are, Your Majesty.

%Ranulf,Nailah
Nailah: Hm. I’d always assumed that you cats were weak, but I was wrong. I’ve been watching you fight this battle. You’re really very good.
Ranulf: Queen Nailah, while I’m honored to receive praise from you, I’d really rather not fight you. I think I’d much rather run away with my tail tucked firmly between my legs, to be honest.
Nailah: Don’t be so modest, Ranulf. You’ll be a good challenge, I’m sure, and those are rare for me. Ready?
Ranulf: Thrown around by Skrimir, cornered by General Zelgius, and now this. Can someone tell me why I always seem to pull the short straw?

%Tibarn,Nailah
Nailah: ...I must confess, I’ve wanted this since I first laid eyes on you. I can hardly hold myself back right now.
Tibarn: Lady, the feeling is mutual. Why do you think I winged my way over here? It looks to me like we can have a nice, private time right here. No interruptions. Just you and me.
Nailah: Hawk King Tibarn. I think that a few more scars on your face will complete that rugged look you’re going for.
Tibarn: For a beautiful woman like you, I’ll gladly offer my head. Of course you’ll have to bring me down to the ground first.
Nailah: Challenge accepted. I think you’ll regret it once I add your feathers to my necklace, though. Oh, and let’s not tell Rafiel about this, agreed? He wouldn’t understand these urges of ours.

%Skrimir,Nailah
Nailah: Ah, the lion prince! You’ll give me the challenge I’m craving, won’t you? I’m having trouble finding decent enemies.
Skrimir: Gladly, Queen Nailah. I’ve wanted to fight a wolf ever since I heard the legends of your people as a cub. Let me show you why I am the heir to the lion king. You’d better hope you eastern laguz heal as well as we do.

%Ilyana,Nailah
Ilyana: Wolf Queen...
Nailah: Ilyana. I am not familiar with beorc magic. You might actually stand a chance, if you strike quickly.
Ilyana: Um, OK... But... Queen Nailah? Would you promise me something? If we both live through this, will you take me for some good Hatari cooking?

%Zihark,Nailah
Nailah: Zihark... You used to fight for Micaiah.
Zihark: Queen Nailah. Do you fight for Daein now?
Nailah: Well, let’s say I’ve replaced some of the deserters.
Zihark: That’s right, I’m a deserter. I don’t have to defend my decision. I made the right choice.
Nailah: Zihark, I don’t care. These are beorc problems. What I’m interested in is you and your blade. Shall we get started? I remember you as a skilled swordsman. I’m excited to see your work up close.
Zihark: I don’t know if my blade can match your jaws, Queen Nailah, but I’m honored to face you. At your ready.

%Jill,Nailah
Jill: Queen Nailah! You’re fighting for Daein now?
Nailah: To tell you the truth, I’m interested in fighting you, Jill. An armed beorc trained to fight from the back of a wyvern... Now, that’s what I call a challenge!
Jill: Very well, Queen Nailah. I don’t know why you’ve switched sides, but if it’s a fight you want, you’ve found one!

@Battle-Talk 
%Zihark,Pelleas
Zihark: King Pelleas. Would you please listen to what I have to say?
Pelleas: Zihark. What is there to talk about? You’ve deserted your country and your people.
Zihark: I just don’t understand. I thought I knew you. You are a good, kind man. Why do you continue to fight for those bloodsucking senators?
Pelleas: I don’t want to talk about it.
Zihark: Your Majesty...
Pelleas: It doesn’t concern you anymore. You’ve abandoned Daein--and us. If you want to stop us, use your sword--not words.
Zihark: My sword and my allegiance do lie elsewhere now, it’s true. But I am not without honor. I will not draw my sword against the man I call my king, no matter what.
Pelleas: ...I’m sorry, Zihark. At least you’ll be spared from the curse of the pact.

%Jill,Pelleas
Jill: King Pelleas! Please wait. I must talk to you.
Pelleas: Jill. I’m afraid I have nothing to say to you. You abandoned your own country.
Jill: No, I... Yes, I suppose that’s true. I just couldn’t understand why we would bow to the empire, after fighting so hard to free ourselves from their grasp! Why are you fighting an army that isn’t even an enemy of Daein?
Pelleas: You don’t need to understand.
Jill: King Pelleas...
Pelleas: Jill, you do what you think is best for you. Go your own way. But don’t return to Daein. Ever.
Jill: But I can’t do that! In the end, I am a native of Daein. This is where the body of my father lies. This is my home. My only home...
Pelleas: ...I’m sorry, Jill. But there’s no need for you to fall prey to the curse as well.

@Recruit-Battle
Pelleas: If you thought to end this battle quickly by fighting me, you have made a grave mistake.

%Ike,Pelleas
Ike: You’re King Pelleas? The son of Mad King Ashnard? I expected you to be...bigger.
Pelleas: You are the hero of Crimea, General Ike. You killed my father...
Ike: It was nothing personal. Your father had to be put down. Wait, are you shaking?
Pelleas: I’ve never killed anyone before... I’ve never even stood on a battlefield before today.
Ike: Then why did you come here? Do you want to die?
Pelleas: I do, but it won’t change anything... I promised Micaiah that I wouldn’t run from my destiny. General Ike, you may be able to take me down easily, but I will not run!
Ike: Just what Daein needs...another mad king. Let’s see if you’re as tough as your father.

%Soren,Pelleas
Soren: The new king of Daein, Pelleas. How convenient. I can end this farce right now. Surrender or die.
Pelleas: Who are you? That mark on your forehead... Is it a mark of Spirit Protection?
Soren: No. It’s something rather different.
Pelleas: But that shape... It looks so much like mine!
Soren: Is that so? You might still more powerful than you let on. Still, I doubt this changes anything. Prepare yourself, Pelleas.
Pelleas: But wait! There’s so much I want to ask you!

%Ilyana,Pelleas
Pelleas: Ilyana... I’m sorry. If I were a better king, this wouldn’t have happened. I’m sorry...
Ilyana: Your Majesty, I don’t know what’s happened. All I know is that my friends are hurting each other. If that means I have to stop you to save them, then I’m going to try. I’m sorry...

%Zihark,Pelleas
Pelleas: Zihark... I only ever wanted to help our people. I’m sorry it came to this.
Zihark: So am I, Your Majesty. I don’t understand any of this, but I do know that it has to stop.

%Jill,Pelleas
Pelleas: Jill, you told me once that you wished for me to become a good king for our people. I tried so hard... But I couldn’t fulfil your wish. I’m so sorry.
Jill: It’s all right, Your Majesty. I’d wrongly assumed that you had turned into a tyrant. Please forgive my desertion.

@Recruit-Battle
Pelleas: To die in this lonely place... It’s my fate... But... For Micaiah... I must... I...must live...

@Recruit-Battle 
Kurthnaga: Don’t come near me! I can barely... I don’t want to do this! Get away!

Kurthnaga: Ugh... Gh... Im-impossible! I wasn’t... This can’t... Guh...

%Ike,Kurthnaga
Ike: Prince Kurthnaga!
Kurthnaga: It’s so hot... I’m burning up! My body, it’s on fire!
Ike: Can you hear me? I guess not. Kurth, what’s happening to you?
Kurthnaga: I don’t want to fight... I... I don’t want to take any more lives...

@Battle-Talk 
%Tibarn,Rafiel
Tibarn: Rafiel... Exactly what in the goddess’s name are you doing? You herons are making me tear my feathers out! Do you WANT to die? After all this time apart from your family, you want to die? Did that crazy wolf hit you on the head!
Rafiel: Tibarn, no, it’s not like that. I just want--
Tibarn: Hey, I know you’re worried about this Maiden of Daein. But that’s no reason to join up with the bad guys.
Rafiel: Bad guys? Tibarn, it’s not like that! They are not evil, and I’m not against you, or anyone for that matter!
Tibarn: Then explain to me what’s going on. Go ahead. I’m listening.
Rafiel: I...I want to help Micaiah. That’s all, really! That’s why I thought I should be by her side for this battle...
Tibarn: Right, then that means you’re an enemy now. Are you ready, Rafiel? You’d better hope that queen of yours taught you some fancy moves if you’re planning on surviving me.
Rafiel: Tibarn, I... Sniff...
Tibarn: H-hey, Rafiel, c’mon now. You know I wouldn’t hurt you! Sorry I scared you, all right?
Rafiel: Sniff...sniff...
Tibarn: Rafiel, stop! There’s no crying in battle! Get up, NOW! Please?

@Recruit-Battle 
Rafiel: ...Uhh!
Nailah: Rafiel! You can’t push yourself any further. Get away from here, now! I forbid you to die before I do!
Rafiel: ... As you wish, Nailah. Everyone... Please, forgive me.

%Ike,Rafiel
Ike: Rafiel! What are you doing? Why are you fighting for Daein?!
Rafiel: Please forgive me, Ike. I only wish to help Micaiah.
Ike: Then join back with Tibarn! If you stay here with Daein, you’re our enemy! And if you’re my enemy, then I’ll have no choice but to take you down.
Rafiel: But I just want to help Micaiah! I’m not against you! Please, put the sword down!
Ike: I don’t know how to deal with this. Rafiel, you leave me no choice. I’ll have to knock you out and drag you over to Tibarn. Maybe he’ll know how to deal with you.

@Battle-Talk
%Meg,Brom
Meg: Daddy!
Brom: Meg! I’m glad you’re safe and sound. How’s my baby girl?
Meg: I’m doin’ swell. It’s good to see you, too, Daddy.
Brom: Meg, can you do Daddy a favor? I don’t know what in blazes is going on, but family has gotta stick together! Why don’t you be a good little girl and mosey on over to your daddy’s side.
Meg: No...I can’t. I’m sorry, Daddy. Micaiah is a good person. I believe in her. I want to fight for her.
Brom: Well, shucks, this ain’t no good at all! I hope those higher-ups get their act together soon. But one thing’s for sure. You’re my girl. No way are we gonna fight. Not for anybody or anything!

%Zihark,Meg
Zihark: Meg, why are you still with the Daein army? They’re in the wrong, and you know it. I know it’s selfish of me to ask, but I’m pleading with you. Come with me.
Meg: I can’t... I’m sorry. I hope that this doesn’t get in the way of our wedding, but I can’t do that.
Zihark: Is it because of Micaiah?
Meg: Yes. Everybody knows that this whole war is a mess and that none of us should be fighting right now. But Lady Micaiah is fighting for her people, and I’m gonna stick with her until the very end.
Zihark: Meg, I understand how you feel.
Meg: But I don’t consider you my enemy! Not at all. Not ever! Please, try to understand.
Zihark: I’m so sorry, Meg. I should be standing alongside you, but my country has lost its mind. I didn’t want to hurt you, too.
Meg: Let’s hope for the fight to end soon... Then, we can be together again and get back to making wedding plans!
Zihark: Right...

%Jill,Meg
Jill: Meg! I’m glad I found you! Lower your sword and listen to me!
Meg: No, I can’t! I’m not supposed to talk to my enemies.
Jill: Enemies? Am I an enemy to you, Meg?
Meg: Um... Not really. But this being a battlefield and all, I just thought it’d be easier for both of us if--
Jill: Meg, I could never attack you, no matter the circumstance.
Meg: I couldn’t hurt you either, Jill. It’s probably a bad thing for a soldier, but I don’t care. You’re my friend.
Jill: I don’t understand what’s going on... This war is so meaningless. Can’t you tell me why Daein is still fighting?
Meg: I’m sorry, Jill. I can’t. It’s not that I don’t want to. It’s because I want to protect you. All I can say is that I feel as helpless as a plow without an ox. I wish we could all be together like a family again.
Jill: Meg...

@Battle 
Ranulf: Ugh... All this chaos... I can barely see straight...

Sanaki: Still no word from the battle. What’s going on out there? I should go to my people. They may need me.
???: Hey, just where do you think you’re going? Do you think the high-and-mighty apostle should be traipsing around a battlefield, hmm?
Sanaki: Wha-- Oh, it’s just you. Hmph. How dare you sneak up on me that way!
???: That beauty from the Holy Guards told me to keep an eye on you. So, do me a favor and sit still, will you?
Sanaki: But I can’t see anything from here! I have to know how my people are faring down there! I...I can’t bear doing nothing! Hmm... I have an idea. You! Carry me to a place where I can observe the battle! Don’t give me that look! You’re the one who agreed to guard me, so do your duty and obey your orders! Come on, let’s get moving!
???: Wait a minute... Is that what passes for beorc logic these days? No wonder you’ve lost your throne. OW! Stop that!
Sanaki: Are you going to obey me, or shall I have you chased back home in a cloud of feathers?
Naesala: By the goddess, what have I gotten myself into? As you wish, Empress. My back is yours.

Kurthnaga: My body feels like it’s on fire... I can hardly breathe! So, this is what war feels like... No, please, don’t come near me... I don’t want to hurt anyone!

Micaiah: Whe...What did you say? Did somebody call for me? Who just called out my name?
Sothe: Micaiah? Micaiah, what’s wrong?
Micaiah: Wait. I’m coming! I’ll be right there!

Boyd: Ike, get over here, quick! Mist collapsed!
Ike: Mist?! Mist! What’s wrong?!
Mist: Ike... My head... It hurts so much... It’s the medallion...
Ike: What do you mean?
Mist: The medallion is calling out to me... Please, Ike... Take me to the medallion...
Ike: Mist! Talk to me! Wake up, please!
Boyd: I’ll clear you a path! Take Mist with you! Get her out of here, quick!
Mist: Boyd...
Boyd: Don’t worry. I won’t die here. You take care of yourself, all right? Hang in there, for me.
Mist: Boyd... I will. I promise.
Boyd: Look after her, all right, Ike? Make sure nothing happens to her.
Ike: I will. Thanks for this, Boyd.

@End
Ike: What's this light? Is it the medallion?
Nailah: She collapsed, too?
Tibarn: I get it now. Anyone who has the spirit of order within them is affected by this light.
Ike: Tibarn! Queen Nailah! What are you two doing here?
Tibarn: Reyson collapsed suddenly. I figured I'd take him to a safe place.
Nailah: Rafiel fell unconscious as well. I thought I'd let him rest with Leanne. But then I found that she had collapsed too.
Ike: And you think the medallion did this to them? Mist?

Mist: The seal...on the medallion...is about to break... It can't be controlled anymore... My song won't work anymore... We're running...out of time...
Ike: What are you talking about?!
Mist: Call the apostle... She must sing the galdr of release... Hurry, before it's too late... Please, Ike... I can hear...a voice... It's inside my head... The voice is telling me...that we must not awaken the dark god through war...
Ike: A voice in your head? Mist, what is going--

Ike: Hey! Mist! Wake up!
Tibarn: Ulki! Do you hear me? Bring the apostle here at once!
Ike: Are you sure about that? Mist is saying that she should sing the galdr of release. She's saying that we should wake up the dark god!
Tibarn: The seal will break anyway. If that's the case, then we should take a chance on your sister and do what she says.
Nailah: I agree with the hawk king. It's too late to calm the dark god back to sleep. It would take too long.
Ike: Do you think we'll be safe if the apostle wakes up the dark god? Didn't we fight a major war to prevent that from happening a few years ago?
Tibarn: I don't know. Are we safe now? But I did always wonder why Heron Queen Lillia passed down the galdr of release. She must have left it behind for a good reason. I'm willing to bet my life on it.
Nailah: It's the only choice for our survival. Besides, we won't know if it'll work until we try.
Ike: All right... Let's do it.


Ulki: I brought the apostle with me.
Janaff: ...And a little extra baggage.

Naesala: Reyson! Leanne!

Naesala: Now, now, Tibarn. I know you're angry, but we'll work it out when this is over.
Tibarn: Not a chance, Naesala. I hope you've said all your prayers and farewells. After I break every bone in your body, I'm going to rip your wings off and feed them to you before you get to die.
Sanaki: Hawk King Tibarn, I must ask you for your patience. This man serves under my command.
Tibarn: You think I care, child? This is a laguz matter. You should see yourself out of it very quickly.
Sanaki: I will explain later. Put aside your past quarrels for now. Not to repeat the king of Kilvas, but we have more pressing issues we must attend to. Oh, and Hawk King? Don't ever call me "child" again.
Tibarn: Hmph...fine. You get to live now, Naesala. Once this is done, though, you're a corpse.
Sanaki: So, what would you have me do? I will use all the power at my disposal to help in this.
Ike: Sing the galdr of release for us. The song that was passed down from the heron queen to my mother, then from my mother to Mist.
Sanaki: But if I sing that galdr before the medallion, it would awaken the dark god...
Ike: This is what my sister said: We must not awaken the dark god with the spirit of chaos. We must use the galdr of release instead. The seal will break if we just leave the medallion alone. Please, sing the song.
Sanaki: Better than releasing the dark god through war, is that it? Very well. I shall try.


Ike: What's going on? Nothing's happening.
Sanaki: It's not working! But why?

Sanaki: A bird?
???: A melody alone won't work.

Sothe: Wait! This is right in the middle of enemy territory!
Ike: Sothe! Why are you here?
Sothe: Commander Ike! And the laguz kings... Even the apostle is here? I thought you'd all be on the battlefield, commanding the army! This just got really, really bad...
Ike: Mist and the herons collapsed because of that thing.

Micaiah: ...I can hear the voice. Finally, we get to meet. I have been guided by this voice for so long... I have finally found my purpose.

Micaiah: Galdrar consist of melody and lyrics. Without both in harmony, the songs have a mere fraction of the power.
Sanaki: Maiden of Daein, the only part I was taught was the melody. I do not know the lyrics.
Micaiah: The words. They are passed down through the ages like a bloodline. Though time may pass, their meaning is never lost. When I heard you sign the melody, the words came to me.
Sothe: Micaiah? I don't understand what you're going on about. There's no way you could--
Ike: Sothe, shut up and watch.

Micaiah: When I heard the melody, the lyrics felt as if they poured out from deep within me. I know this song. I've known it since before I was born. I am...

???: Good morning to you, my goddess.
???: What has happened? A thousand years have not passed. Why am I awoken early?
???: Indeed, my goddess. You have been asleep for 780 years. During that time, the world kept its promise to you for a mere two hundred years, at best. It was as you said. Neither the laguz nor beorc could resist the urge to fight. They are too weak. Though there are 220 years left until the thousandth year, there is no longer any need to wait.
???: Is that so? That is your analysis? Then I shall pass down my judgment. I will save them from themselves.

Mist: Ugh...
Ike: Mist! How do you feel?
Mist: Ike, you look so worried... What happened? Where am I, anyway? The last I remember, I was on the battlefield...
Ike: You don't remember?
Mist: I had a horrible headache, and my stomach really hurt... Then suddenly, it all went away.

Reyson: Unnh...!
Tibarn: Reyson?
Reyson: Tibarn... What is this place?
Naesala: Are you all right, Reyson?
Reyson: Naesala? Why are you here? You betrayed us again, you dastard!
Naesala: I had my reasons. I know you'll never forgive me, but I at least want you to hear me out. But it can wait. Tibarn and I will work out our problems first. You go ahead and sleep now, all right?
Reyson: Very well... I'm glad to hear that... 
Tibarn: Start talking, before I tear your arms off.
Naesala: Whatever my reasons, you won't forgive me. I know that. But I'm asking you to put your feelings aside for now. We're both worried about the herons, right?
Tibarn: You spineless piece of trash! You used that line on me before, remember?! And look what my forgiveness did to my people! You live now because I choose for you to live, Naesala. Once this mess gets sorted, though, I'll be wearing your beak as a trophy. Get out of my sight.

Nailah: Rafiel and Leanne are still out cold. Will they be all right?
???: There's no need to worry. They're just not used to the spirit of chaos being so near. They'll wake up soon.

Sothe: Micaiah! What happened to the dark god? Is she awake?
???: I'm not Micaiah. She's sleeping right now.
Sothe: What?! What are you saying?! If you're not Micaiah, then where is she?!
???: I wonder where Ashera is? We must hurry and make our judgment. Wait...what are you doing?! No! You must consult with me first! No, don't do this!

Ike: Mist. Are you all right?
Mist: Yes, I'm fine. What happened, though? What was that light?
Ike: I don't know... But it's very quiet outside. Too quiet. I hope everyone's OK...

Tibarn: So, can you tell what's going on out there?
Ulki: ...Impossible! I can't hear anything... Either that light took my hearing, or...there's nothing out there...
Tibarn: What do you mean?! There were thousands of troops...
Janaff: I'll go take a look! 

???: It's time. Everyone, let's go outside. 
Sothe: H-hey! Micaiah! Wait!

Ike: What in... What happened? They're statues...

Ike: Hey! Anyone! Can anyone hear me? Somebody, please!

Ike: Answer me! Is anyone here!?

@Conversation 
Mist: What’s this? A bag of spirit powder?
Boyd: Yeah. You said you wanted one, right?
Mist: And you found one for me? Thanks, Boyd. You’re the greatest.
Boyd: Yeah, well. You always take such good care of us.
Mist: ...
Boyd: What’s wrong, Mist? Are you feeling sick? You look a little pale.
Mist: Yeah. I’ve been feeling a bit under the weather lately.
Boyd: Hey, you can’t go out and fight if you’re feeling sick! You should rest!
Mist: No! No way!
Boyd: Mist?
Mist: I’m staying with everyone! I have to! I’m not going to be left behind. Something might happen!
Boyd: But you’re in no condition to...
Mist: Dad never came back! He died somewhere, and I wasn’t there to say goodbye!
Boyd: Aww, but that’s--
Mist: That’s why I’m not staying behind! I want to stay with my family until our last moment together. Please, Boyd. Don’t stop me.
Boyd: All right, I won’t say anything. I won’t tell you to stay behind, either. I guess I’ll just have to be careful to protect you when we’re out in the field. Does that sound good?
Mist: Yes, Boyd. Thank you.

Rolf: Ah, I see...
Shinon: Then you secure it right there, and... There, it’s finished!
Rolf: Yeah! Shinon, you’re the greatest! I’m so proud that you’re my teacher!
Shinon: Oh, come on, Rolf. Don’t make puppy eyes at me.
Rolf: What? But it’s true! You’re really amazing!
Shinon: Cut it out, kid. You exaggerate too much.
Rolf: Are you going to sell this one to Aimee again? Can I come along? Please?
Shinon: I’m not selling this one.
Rolf: What? But... Oh, I got it. You’re going to use it yourself. Then can I fight alongside you? I want you to teach me that trick where you shoot them in the neck and then--
Shinon: We can talk about that later. Here, this is for you. Go on, take it.
Rolf: But this is--
Shinon: You’ve been running around camp with that silly grin plastered on your face, but I can tell all the fighting’s wearing you down. I can’t help you get a good night’s sleep, or make you eat your vegetables, but I can see that you’re using a decent bow.
Rolf: Shinon...
Shinon: I don’t know why we’re fighting this stinkin’ war, but I ain’t about to die like a dog. And I know you’re too young to be pushing up daisies.
Rolf: But I...
Shinon: What’s your problem, kid?
Rolf: I can’t possibly pay you back for it! A great bow like this... what can I do? You taught me how to shoot a bow. How to make a bow. And that’s not all! You’ve given me so much, and yet there’s nothing I can do to pay you back for it.
Shinon: Of all the stupid...
Rolf: Ouch!
Shinon: Quit whining at me!
Rolf: Oww! You didn’t have to hit me with that bow!
Shinon: Did I ever ask you to pay me back? Did I ever tell you my help had any strings attached? No! Kids should be kids and just learn from their elders!
Rolf: But--
Shinon: If you want to pay me back, then be better than me! Doesn’t matter if it’s at using a bow or making one. Just do it better. Then I can point at you and tell people "That’s the best student I ever had."
Rolf: Shinon...
Shinon: I look after you because you have talent. I like watching you, kid. I like watching you shoot better every single day, you know? But if someone sticks an arrow in your eye, I ain’t gonna have any way to pass the time. So stay sharp! You hear?
Rolf: ...Fine. Thanks, master. I’ll do my best to surpass you. I swear!
Shinon: "Master"? I think I like the sound of that. Keep listening to me and you’ll be all right.
/***EOF***/
@Intro
Begnion: Assembling is forbidden! All violators will be punished immediately!
Man: Assembling? We were just talking around the well...
Begnion: Silence! No excuses!

Man: Gyaaahhh!

Fiona: Can I really have just seen that?
Jarod: Lady Fiona. The self-proclaimed "Liberation Army" is on the march. Marado's army has been ordered to deploy with us.
Fiona: Understood, General. We will prepare immediately. But I need to address your soldiers' conduct--
Jarod: A new war is afoot. You never answered Ashnard's call to arms in the last one. You have a reputation for ruling wisely. Don't endanger your people by hurling ugly accusations at my soldiers. I trust I needn't worry that you'll fail to answer the empire's call.
Fiona: I will not lie to you. My people are proud citizens of Daein, and some agree with these so-called liberators. However, I will not lead my people into danger over ridiculous rumors of some unknown orphan prince.
Jarod: I'm glad to hear it.

Jarod: I need a volunteer. Follow that woman's every move. I trust her no farther than I can throw her.

Izuka: Well, well! The rumors that my...operatives started have spread like wildfire through all of Daein! "Late King Ashnard's orphan surfaces!" "Silver-Haired Maiden at Prince Pelleas's side!" Now that we have the people's attention...we snag their hearts! We'll just extol the savior, fan the rebellion, go to battle...and conquer the enemy in a blaze of glory!
Sothe: Do we have sufficient forces to arouse said rebellion and achieve victory?
Izuka: You let me worry about that. This highly sophisticated strategizing is beyond your young minds! Worry not, my prince. After painstaking investigation, I have determined the exact locations to target! Gather 'round, all of you! Hear my plan for our next strike.

Izuka: If the Liberation Army attacks any of these places, we are assured of an absolute victory.
Pelleas: Masterful as always, Izuka. It's good to know I can count on you.
Izuka: First, we'll target Talrega. It borders the frontier, Begnion's hold is shaky...and resentment runs high.
Micaiah: No. Talrega is no good.
Izuka: Wha-what was that!? On what grounds are my decisions being questioned by this...this child?!
Micaiah: The timing is wrong. Because of the rains, we won't be able to advance well, let alone fight.
Jill: It's true. I'm from Talrega, and I remember well the landslides and floods that come every spring. The mountain road leading to that particular work camp is notoriously dangerous.
Izuka: Wha-what?! Impossible! My...my strategy is flawless, perfect even. Hmph, I never...
Sothe: Micaiah, where do you think we should attack?
Micaiah: ... Terin... We'll have better luck in Terin.
Tauroneo: Terin, too, lies in the mountains, but in the arid northern region, where the weather is predictable.
Pelleas: Micaiah, you're amazing! I count my blessings to have you as vice-general. You give me hope.
Jill: Lady Micaiah, few outsiders know of the landslides in Talrega. Have you been there before?
Sothe: Micaiah is a powerful seer. We in the Dawn Brigade owe our lives and our freedom to her abilities.
Izuka: Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhggghhhk!
Pelleas: Goodness, Izuka, what is it?
Izuka: She can foresee battle outcomes!? Magnificent! Why didn't anybody tell me of this? This only makes the maiden that much more appealing. And let us just be honest here, my foresight in decreeing her vice-general was wondrous--nay, genius!
Sothe: ...
Izuka: Excellent. Well then, yes. All bow to the maiden's vision. Let's leave the camp and make for Terin!

@Conversation
???: Yes, that's what I heard! What with that light...and that silver...
Lass: Could she... Could she be the Silver-Haired Maiden?
Micaiah: Hm?
Lass: Oh, it is! It is you!
Grandmother: Oh... Oh, my...
Lass: You're fighting with King Ashnard's son to free Daein, aren't you? Oh, we've heard so much about you!
Grandmother: Oh...what a blessing! What a blessing!
Lass: We're all waiting! We're waiting for the day you free us from those filthy Begnion pigs!
Grandmother: Please...take...this.
Lass: It's not much, but people from all over the village pitched in.
Micaiah: Oh, no, I couldn't possibly...
Sothe: Thank you. We appreciate your kindness.
Grandmother: ...
Lass: We're all counting on you! Please, free us! 
Micaiah: ...
Sothe: Looks like Izuka's propaganda is working fast.
Micaiah: Mm.
Sothe: You didn't want me to take the money, did you?
Micaiah: It's not that. It's just... Oh, never mind.
Sothe: Oh, come on. What did I do this time? You're not going to say? Great. In that case, let's get out of here and go find the others.
 
Kurth: So, you're staying, then?
Almedha: I appreciate your concern. However, I--
Kurth: You can't leave Prince Pelleas's side. Is that not so?
Almedha: That's right.
Kurth: Then take this, at least. Almedha: A sending stone?
Kurth: Do you remember how to use one?
Almedha: Of course I remember how to use one. But it's such a precious gift... Are you sure about this? Thank you, Kurth.
???: Kurth! Where are you?
Almedha: I must go now.
Kurth: Please, remain safe.
Almedha: You as well. 
Kurth: ...
Micaiah: Kurth?
Kurth: Micaiah. How nice to see you.
Micaiah: Kurth, I'm leaving for Terin. I know this is sudden. To tell the truth, I'm surprised too.
Kurth: I see. You are off to perform your first duties as a general of this "Liberation Army".
Micaiah: Yes.
Kurth: I abhor violence. I do not think you should fight.
Micaiah: Kurth, I'm not fighting because I enj--
Kurth: I know. I know you wish there were another way. And I understand that you feel this is what you must do to save your country.
Micaiah: ...
Kurth: Here, take this.
Micaiah: What is it?
Kurth: May it serve to protect you. Micaiah, I must leave you now. I am going home to my own country.
Micaiah: What? So suddenly?
Kurth: I'm sorry, Micaiah. Being so close to battle frightens me, to tell the truth. Thank you for rescuing me. And thank you for the short time we spent together. I enjoyed it immensely.
Micaiah: Will I ever see you again?
Kurth: Who knows? Why don't we... Yes. Let us leave it up to the goddess.
Micaiah: I suppose we must.

@Intro
Begnion: A small troop approaches from the east! It appears to be the Daein Liberation Army!
Laverton: ...Blissfully ignorant of the trap that awaits them. I pity them, really. Have the first platoon assume their battle positions!

Fiona: Shall we deploy too?
Laverton: Kind of you to offer, Lady Fiona. But the first platoon will suffice here. This is really none of Marado's business.
Fiona: I see. In that case, we'll use this opportunity to observe the empire's army at work.

@Battle
Laverton: Hornet hairs! At this rate they'll breach our lines before we can stop them. I have no choice. You! Bring out the prisoners!

Boy: I'm sc-scared! Please don't hurt me.
Fiona: Lord Laverton, exactly what are you planning to do?!
Laverton: This so-called "Liberation Army" is forcing me to sacrifice this boy!
Boy: Help!
Micaiah: No!
Sothe: Micaiah!
Laverton: Fight, and these people will be executed right now! Surrender, and they will be spared.
Micaiah: ...Everyone, throw down your weapons.
Sothe: You have a feeling, don't you? Got it. We'll follow your instinct.
Laverton: Ha ha ha ha ha... A wise choice, girl! Well, no more need for these prisoners, is there? Kill them all!
Fiona: No!

Laverton: What do you think you're doing?
Fiona: I'll have nothing to do with you and your monstrous tactics!
Laverton: So, you betray us after all. Marado has never been known for holding its faith. You'll die like the rest!
Sothe: A troop of Daein cavalry just mutinied. Is this what you sensed?
Micaiah: Yes. Now we must reinforce them and help save the hostages!

@Boss
Laverton: Y-you pretentious little fools. I'll show you how insignificant you are!

Laverton: Gu...uarrgh... You...disgust...me...

%Micaiah,Laverton
Micaiah: Making hostages of the helpless. Is that how knights of the great Begnion Empire operate?
Laverton: Shut up, shut up, shut up!

%Volug,Laverton
Laverton: Wh-what kind of monster are you?! A su-sub-human? B-but, there are no wolf sub-humans!
Volug: ...
Laverton: Don’t just stand there! Say something, you vile beast!

%Fiona,Laverton
Laverton: General Jarod will never, ever overlook this betrayal! Marado will be put to the torch, and your people will be put to the sword. You will rue this day!
Fiona: Empty threats! My fate lies in defending my country and my people. You don’t stand a chance against that kind of loyalty!

@End
Micaiah: Dear boy, I'm sorry you had to suffer on our account.
Boy: I wasn't scared! I knew the Dawn Brigade would save us. Thank you!

Fiona: Thank you for rescuing my people.
Tauroneo: Your people? So you must be--
Fiona: Yes. I am Lanvega's daughter, Fiona. After my father died, I assumed the governance of Marado.
Micaiah: General Lanvega? From the song? "Bryce, Tauroneo, Gawain, and Lanvega... Four Riders of Daein, one country, one king, While they bear our banner, A free Daein shall sing." You're THAT General Lanvega's daughter?
Tauroneo: Indeed... Lanvega, of the Four Riders. He was a good friend, and a mighty swordsman as well. And stubborn as a mule. Your father was a powerful warrior of unquestionable integrity. A great man.
Fiona: Yes. And that's why he renounced his rank and title as Rider and withdrew from court life, rather than serve King Ashnard. You've heard the rumors, no doubt, that Ashnard murdered his own father? My father could not serve such a man... And so, to protect Marado from a madman, we did not send men to fight for Daein in the war. I doubt you could ever forgive us...
Micaiah: No, quite the opposite. You are these people's steward, and you chose the course that would protect them. But now, Begnion is willing to sacrifice innocent children to maintain their grip over our country. We cannot allow that. That is why we are asking you to lend your strength to the Liberation Army. Together, we can reclaim our country.
Fiona: And now, you ask us to bear part of the burden of restoring our motherland? If you would have my lance, then... I, Fiona, Steward of Marado, do gladly swear allegiance to your Liberation Army. I and my men bind ourselves to your fate. Use my army as best you see fit.

Jarod: And now, Marado betrays us as well? You are aware that riots broke out in three other regions yesterday, are you not? ...All quelled immediately, of course, but the unrest grows.
Numida: Who cares what the commoners do or think? Does the shepherd fuss when his sheep butt their heads against the fence post?
Jarod: Nevertheless, as the insurgence grows, news of it will inevitably reach Begnion.
Numida: Yes... I see what you mean. That would be...less than desirable.

Jarod: The Imperial Prime Minister Sephiran casts a grim eye on dishonesty. If he finds out what has been going on in Daein under our rule...
Numida: That would not be good. Sephiran's persistent as a mosquito and quick to judge. Though you and I know I have been nothing but fair and just in my rule here...it's best to avoid an inquiry.
Jarod: Which leaves us but one recourse... Crush the rebel faction before it grows larger. Exterminate them. Then the commoners, bereft of all hope, will turn their sheep eyes back to us and beg to rejoin the flock.
Numida: I see. Well, I leave the matter in your hands. What funding you need is yours.
Jarod: I'm glad we agree on this. Well then, pardon me, sir, while I tend to our little lambs on the loose.

@Narration
The Liberation Army's sweeping victory seems to signal a turn in the war for Daein. However, General Jarod uses his superior numbers to harry the group and threaten their fragile momentum. Begnion has fortified its army with weapons and supplies bought with funds stolen from Daein. Begnion has also purchased the swords of a vast number of mercenaries from these same stolen funds.
The Liberation Army does not want for willing fighters of its own. However, most are old men and inexperienced boys whose passion far outstrips their skill. The Liberation Army has no choice: it must bolster its ranks if it is to meet Begnion on equal terms. Its only hope lies locked in Begnion's prison camps, where Daein's former soldiers await their rescue.

@Conversation 
???: Yes, that’s what I heard! What with that light... and that silver...
Lass: Could she... Could she be the Silver-Haired Maiden?
Micaiah: Hm?
Lass: Oh, it is! It is you!
Grandmother: Oh... Oh, my...
Lass: You’re fighting with King Ashnard’s son to free Daein, aren’t you? Oh, we’ve heard so much about you!
Grandmother: Oh...what a blessing! What a blessing!
Lass: We’re all waiting! We’re waiting for the day you free us from those filthy Begnion pigs!
Grandmother: Please...take...this.
Lass: It’s not much, but people from all over the village pitched in.
Micaiah: Oh, no, I couldn’t possibly...
Sothe: Thank you. We appreciate your kindness.
Grandmother: ...
Lass: We’re all counting on you! Please, free us!
Micaiah: ...
Sothe: Looks like Izuka’s propaganda is working fast.
Micaiah: Mm.
Sothe: You didn’t want me to take the money, did you?
Micaiah: It’s not that. It’s just... Oh, never mind.
Sothe: Oh, come on. What did I do this time? You’re not going to say? Great. In that case, let’s get out of here and go find the others.

Kurth: So, you’re staying, then?
Almedha: I appreciate your concern. However, I--
Kurth: You can’t leave Prince Pelleas’s side. Is that not so?
Almedha: That’s right.
Kurth: Then take this, at least.
Almedha: A sending stone?
Kurth: Do you remember how to use one?
Almedha: Of course I remember how to use one. But it’s such a precious gift... Are you sure about this? Thank you, Kurth.
???: Kurth! Where are you?
Almedha: I must go now.
Kurth: Please, remain safe.
Almedha: You as well.
Kurth: ...
Micaiah: Kurth?
Kurth: Micaiah. How nice to see you.
Micaiah: Kurth, I’m leaving for Terin. I know this is sudden. To tell the truth, I’m surprised too.
Kurth: I see. You are off to perform your first duties as a general of this "Liberation Army."
Micaiah: Yes.
Kurth: I abhor violence. I do not think you should fight.
Micaiah: Kurth, I’m not fighting because I enj--
Kurth: I know. I know you wish there were another way. And I understand that you feel this is what you must do to save your country.
Micaiah: ...
Kurth: Here, take this.
Micaiah: What is it?
Kurth: May it serve to protect you. Micaiah, I must leave you now. I am going home to my own country.
Micaiah: What? So suddenly?
Kurth: I’m sorry, Micaiah. Being so close to battle frightens me, to tell the truth. Thank you for rescuing me. And thank you for the short time we spent together. I enjoyed it immensely.
Micaiah: Will I ever see you again?
Kurth: Who knows? Why don’t we... Yes. Let us leave it up to the goddess.
Micaiah: I suppose we must.
/***EOF***/
@Intro
Micaiah: How should we explain yesterday to Sothe and Nolan?
Leonardo: It's like you said. We didn't have a choice. We had to save Nico and the townsfolk. But I admit, getting spotted by those Begnion soldiers was unfortunate. Still, I'd do it all over again. The worst part is they know we're near. They could find this hideout as easily as they found our last one.
Edward: I just don't get it. This is our country... Why do we have to live in hiding, like prisoners in our own land?
Leonardo: Come on, you know why. We lost the war...and Crimea won. It's not "our" country anymore. End of story.
Edward: Except that Crimea walked away after winning, leaving those heartless Begnion dogs to rule our country for the last three years! The occupying soldiers march around like they own the place, doing whatever they want, and no one dares to stop them!
???: To be fair, Crimea didn't have the resources to rule another country.

Micaiah: Sothe! And Nolan, too! Welcome back. I'm glad you made it in one piece.
Leonardo: At last, the Dawn Brigade is all present. But you are unusually late. Were you delayed?
Sothe: I think our fame's catching up with us. Begnion patrols are everywhere. It took us a while to avoid them.
Nolan: I've never seen so much Begnion activity in this area before. Is there...something we should know?

Leonardo: Um, well, actually, the truth is...

Nolan: Ah, that's what did it. You had a run-in with bandits?
Micaiah: And Begnion soldiers spotted us as we made our escape. I'm sorry. We only wanted to help. We were careless.
Sothe: We'll worry about that later. More importantly, Micaiah, were you seen healing anyone with Sacrifice?
Micaiah: I'm afraid so.
Sothe: You can't allow anyone to know what you can do. Healing without any tomes or staves is a rare gift—-almost unheard of. If anyone saw you doing it, you'd be given away immediately, and I don't know if I could keep you safe.
Micaiah: I know, Sothe.
Sothe: I know you know, but you keep doing it! This place isn't safe anymore. We should leave at once.
Nolan: Correct. Ah, but it would have been nice to eat just one meal in peace...

Edward: This way's no good either. Begnion soldiers have every alleyway blocked. A kitten couldn't sneak past them.
Nolan: It looks like this really is the least guarded path, then. Even so, it's swarming with soldiers.
Micaiah: There are more coming up behind us! We'll be trapped if we don't move quickly!
Nolan: We can't wait for Sothe.
Micaiah: The stairs by the church lead to the marketplace. We can break through there.
Nolan: I'll go first and secure the way. Micaiah and Leonardo, cover my back! Remember to keep your distance from the enemy. Team up and bring them down one by one!
Micaiah: We'll be careful.
Leonardo: Leave it to us.
Nolan: Edward, you bring up the rear. Your skills have improved, but you're still new to fighting. Don't rush the enemy. Just focus on surviving their attacks. Got it?
Edward: Yeah, yeah, I got it.

@Battle
Mercenary: Captain Isaiya! Just as you said. A group that appears to be the Dawn Brigade is storming the alley!
Isaiya: How generous of them. I'll wipe them out and advertise my exploits to our commanders back home.

@Visit
Grandmother: You there! You must be... Ah, you needn't say a word. I see the goodwill in your eyes. Take this and go, quickly. You've done so much for Daein's poor. It's time we did something in return.

Man: Those beasts! They do whatever they want in our country. They're even sending our clergy to their awful camps! But I'm helpless. I don't have your strength or courage. This axe... You should have it.

@Boss
Isaiya: What fast little mice you are! How long do you plan on scurrying around in back alleys?

Isaiya: What?! This can't be! I'm in my prime... Not...so easily...

%Micaiah,Isaiya
Micaiah: Step aside!
Isaiya: The girl we've been looking for! The lucky little escapee. Too bad for you, sweetie. Your luck ends today!

@End
Sothe: Everybody...this way!

Begnion: They're running to the center of town! After them!

Nolan: Good work! I see the market. If we can blend into the crowd, they'll lose us, and we'll be free and clear.

Nico: Hey, lady!
Micaiah: Nico!
Lady: They're after you again, aren't they?
Nico: Are you and your friends all right?
Begnion: Moldy onions! Where'd they go?! 
Grandfather: Leave the soldiers to us. Go on, now. Get yourselves to safety.
Lady: Quickly—-don't dawdle. You must escape. You're our only hope.
Micaiah: Thank you so much! 
Begnion: Wait! There they go! Catch them!

Begnion: What are you stopping for?
Begnion: W-well, they...
Lady: You won't get past us! We stand by the Dawn Brigade.
Nico: That's right! Goddess protect the Dawn Brigade!

Micaiah: Wait! Something terrible is about to happen!
Sothe: What is it?
Micaiah:  ...No! We have to go back. 

Begnion: What?! You're letting this rabble stop you? Ready your bows! Nobody defies the will of Begnion.

Grandmother: No! How could you shoot a child? You vicious savages!
Lady: Someone! Someone, help him, quickly! Please...this child is dying!
Begnion:  Pay heed! This is what happens when you meddle in Begnion affairs of state. Remember it well!
Man: I didn't realize that the Begnion Empire's affairs of state included murdering children in the street!
Begnion: Don't point your fingers at us. We're just doing our job. If you're upset, blame the Dawn Brigade! They made this happen!

Begnion: It's the girl we're looking for! Call for reinforcements! Surround and arrest every last one of them...

Begnion: What's happening?! What does she think she's doing?! Hey, you, step away from that child!

Grandfather: It...it's a miracle. We've seen a miracle today!
Man: That was Sacrifice...
Lady: That girl! She must be the Silver-Haired Maiden. Only she possesses Sacrifice!
Begnion: Stop right there! After them! We can't let them get away!

Man: We still stand by the Dawn Brigade.
Begnion: What is wrong with you people?! Did you hear me?! Clear a path, or you'll end up like that kid!
Jarod:  You sniveling idiots! Why are you just standing there?! Give chase. Now!

Begnion: Yes, sir! We would like to, sir, but...the townspeople are blocking our way.
Jarod: Oh...I see. The townspeople are blocking your way. You dullards!

Jarod: Clean out those dirty ears and listen to me! You are soldiers, and I am your commander! You will follow my orders promptly and without hesitation. Understand, you useless vermin? Now, move!

Jarod: Unbelievable! If it's not one thing, it's another. Why am I always stuck leading the buffoons?

Micaiah: ...Mmm...
Sothe: Are you awake now? Thank goodness. Do you see? This is why I told you not to use Sacrifice...
Edward: We sure showed them in Nevassa, huh? I guess we can't go back there... not for a while anyway.
Micaiah: I'm so fond of Nevassa. It's where we all met. It feels like my only real home. We will return...someday.
Sothe: We will, Micaiah. I know you, and you have a way of getting what you want.
Micaiah: Because you're always there to help me get it, Sothe.

/***EOF***/
@Intro 
Brom: Mornin', Jacob!
Jacob: Look atcha, always sowin' yer seeds! It's lookin' like it'll be a fine crop this year--a real dandy!
Brom: Heck, I just work the fields. It's the rich soil beneath m' boots and the fine sun over m' head what does the hard stuff.
Nephenee: Brom!
Brom: Well, if it isn't Nephenee. What's the story with the armor? Haven't ya heard the war's over?
Nephenee: You'll be needin' armor too. A revolution's brewin'. Better suit up--and make it snappy! 
Brom: Revolution?!
Jacob: ...Oh yeah. Nobody tells us ol' geezers much, but I hear talk about some young hotheads over yonder. They're jawin' about bein' fed up with the queen, and how they want change...
Brom: I don't get it! Her Majesty is a fine, fine lady... ...even if she is a tad young to be passin' laws instead of havin' fun. I guess I'll go have a look for m'self.


Yeardley: ...We are the victors. It was Crimean blood and sweat that defeated Ashnard! And what do we have to show for it? We do not rule Crimea. Our towns have been destroyed. We need coin to ease our suffering. Who's to blame?
Youth: The queen!
Yeardley: We've been violated! Daein robbed us of families, friends, and homes! We cannot reconcile with monsters! And now, our hated enemy is rebuilding to threaten us again. Will we stand by and accept this?
Youth: No! We will not!
Yeardley: To arms, I say! We are not afraid! We shall fight for the prosperity of our fatherland, as did Ike the patriot!


Nephenee: Hmm...

Brom: Oomph, hoaa... Lemmee tell ya... It's been a while. This armor feels like a ton of bricks.
Nephenee: Brom... Didn't you say somethin' about usin' axes these days...not spears?
Brom: Uh, yeah... I suppose I did. What, ya went and brought armor AND weapons?
Nephenee: Here, you take this axe... And hold on to it good, ya hear? All right... Let's go!
Brom: Hey now... What's going on?

Youth: Hey, look, it's Nephenee. She even brought her own weapon. So you're gonna join the revolution?
Youth: Together, we can make a difference. Together, we have the power to dethrone the queen!
Nephenee: ...What're y'all thinking?! You don't know the first thing about Queen Elincia!
Brom: Maybe this is all some big mistake? Our queen is a splendid gal. Ain't nobody out there with a kinder heart. We should know as well as anyone... Heck, we fought beside her.
Yeardley: ...You fought with the queen, eh? Hmph... I see. Brothers! Do not be deceived! These two are the queen's agents, and are undoubtedly spying on us!
Brom: Listen, fella, you're talkin' nonsense. Queen Elincia wouldn't dream of usin' spies like that!
Yeardley: Do not be deceived, my people! If they go to the Royal Knights... ...they will return bearing torches, burning homes, and taking prisoners! We must silence these spies!
Brom: Listen up, you blockheads... I guess you forgot 'bout the war. After fighting for years, we finally have peace...and now you want to fight again?
Nephenee: Ain't no good, Brom. These folk got their blood a-pumpin'. Ain't got a lik'a sense left in 'em.
Brom: Horsefeathers. Reckon you're right. Listen up, Nephenee, let's try not to kill too many of these dang fools.

@Visit
Man: There was a stranger in here earlier. He left this axe--probably meant to use it on the queen. You know, I came to this village for some peace and quiet! Isn't there something you can do? Heck with it! Just take this thing. I'm fed up with war!


Lass: What? People are fighting outside? That doesn't make any sense... If anyone were to get hurt... We've got to do something. Ohhhh, I hope Sis is all right...


Boy: You ever heard of Miss Calill? She teaches magic. You know what? I told her she was pretty, and she gave me one of these! People who can't use magic can use this, and then...well...they'll be able to use magic...or something like that. Here, you take this one!


Boy: What? People are fighting outside? That doesn't make any sense... If anyone were to get hurt... Wait, you should take this. It's a kind of medicine we make. Ohhhh, I hope Sis is all right...


Lady: There was a bizarre man who just came through here. He was talking about a revolution and stuff. Left this. I'm tellin' ya, I've had a bellyful of this war business. I don't want this anywhere near me. Toss it... Sell it... I don't care what you do with it. Just get it out of my house. It's all yours.

@Battle
Heather: Sounds like the whole village is in an uproar. More men fussing over nothing, I'm sure. Bigger fools were never made. Lucky me! Time to find one ripe for the picking, get his goods, and be on my way. Be home soon, Mom!

@Recruit-Talk 
%Nephenee,Heather
Nephenee: ...Uh, hello?
Heather: Argh, whaaat?! Do you need something?
Nephenee: Hey, y'all best... Er... You should be careful hanging around here like that. I reckon you should clear out of here while you're still in one piece.
Heather: Aww, that's so sweet of you! What's your name?
Nephenee: Nephenee...
Heather: Nephenee... What a cute name. I'm Heather. Pleased to meet you.
Nephenee: Pleasure's all mine. So it's Heather, huh? You gonna get outta here, then?
Heather: Well... It looks to me like you have an uphill battle to fight. I bet I can help you out.
Nephenee: But you...
Heather: Don't worry about it. I'm the type that likes to help nice country girls like you.
Nephenee: Um...like me?
Heather: That's right. Don't worry about it. Tee hee... This is turning out to be a great day.
Nephenee: Uhhh... Yeah...

%Brom,Heather
Brom: Hey...
Heather: ...
Brom: Hey, pay attention.
Heather: ... ...
Brom: Aw, heck, I hope I ain't shoutin' at a deaf girl... CAN YOU HEAR ME?!
Heather: ...Knock it off, already. What do you want, you old hick?
Brom: ...Oh, sorry 'bout that. They call me Brom, by the way... How 'bout you?
Heather: ...Excuse me? Are you trying to get lucky or something? Give it up, you smelly pig farmer. There's no way I'm having anything to do with you.
Brom: No, no! It's nothin' like that at all! I got myself a darlin' wife and a whole passel of kids, and I love 'em ta death.
Heather: So... What do you want?!
Brom: See, I believe ya just went and stole something from one of these here youngsters in the village. You did quite a job at it, I might add.
Heather: Were... Were you watching?!
Brom: Now hold on a spell... I ain't preachin' at ya, and I'm not gonna turn ya in or nuthin'. I was just thinkin' that maybe ya could lend me a hand.
Heather: A hand? With what?
Brom: Well, me and uh...you see that girl over there with the long hair? We're havin' a bit of a tussle with some'a the young folk in the village... They picked a fight, but we don't want anyone gettin' hurt. I just thought maybe you could borrow some'a their weapons, so we won't have to fight at all?
Heather: Huh... So that girl is a friend of yours? Hmmm...
Brom: Friend ain't exactly the right word... Nephenee... We met when we fought together during the war. We're kinda neighbors, so we hit it off. Durin' the war, neither of us knew much about fightin', so we helped each other out.
Heather: All right, I'll help.
Brom: Whew, that's great! That's just swell of ya!
Heather: Hey, I couldn't care less about you, but I can't just sit back when a girl's in trouble. OK, let's go. We can't leave Nephenee waiting!
Brom: Hey, hold up! Just wait a tick. What's your name?
Heather: Heather! but as for you, hayseed...don't forget the "Miss." Got it?
Brom: Miss Heather, then. All righty. By the way... Could ya maybe slow down a touch? Huff huff huff...

@Boss
%Heather,Yeardley
Yeardley: Be gone with you, thief! We won't have filth like you stand in the way of our supremacy!
Heather: So! You're the ones sent by Ludveck of Felirae?! You've been stirring up these little revolts all over the place.
Yeardley: What?! How did you know?!
Heather: I see things here and there. But half of it was just a guess! ...Judging by your reaction, though, it seems I was right.
Yeardley: You...little...
Heather: Tsk... Don't get so steamed up, Mr. Fancypants! You just look silly. Nothing personal... I just don't like men like you!

%Brom,Yeardley
Brom: Hey, you! Who put ya up to this? Politics ain't my strong suit, so ya can spare me the details, but I know you're up ta no good, and someone's behind it.
Yeardley: Hah! Clamor all you like, but it won't change a thing. Revolution is taking root across Crimea. Our plan is flawless. We're getting rid of that...girl! We shall have a new ruler in Melior... Soon... Lord Ludveck, duke of Felirae, will wear the crown.
Brom: Ludveck? From Felirae?
Yeardley: That is correct. And you shall perish with that name fresh on your lips, you blundering cow!

%Nephenee,Yeardley
Yeardley: Ah, survivors of the war. You would be better off dead and forgotten. You can't stop the duke!
Nephenee: Duke?
Yeardley: Yes. Our master, Lord Ludveck, duke of Felirae, will rule over Crimea. When our plan is complete, the queen will be erased from history. Now then! I believe it's time for you to die...
Nephenee: Right...

@Boss
Yeardley: No! My duty is incomplete... Lord Ludveck... Please forgive me!

@End
Youth: You bumpkins! Just stay out of it!

Youth: It hurts! It hurts so bad! Look, my leg! It... My leg!
Youth: M-murderer! You're a murderer!
Nephenee: But I...
Brom: Yeah. That's right. Nephenee and me... We been to war. When y'all were hidin' in cellars and attics, we were toe-to-toe with Daein. And look at us now...
Youth: St-stop it... Please! I...was wrong! I'm sorry! I'm so sorry!
Brom: You got your head on straight now? You youngsters get so riled up... "Let me at 'em!" and "Bring 'em on!" Hmph! You know spit about war! Nephenee... Let's gear up and head out to the royal palace. Her Majesty's gotta know Ludveck's stirrin' up all kinds of nonsense. And my girl, Meg... She's off on her own... Knowing Meg, though, she'll be fine. All righty then. Let's get movin'.
Nephenee: Sounds like a plan.

Jacob: You two're really leaving, then?
Brom: We put the people of this village in danger. We can't stay here now, knowin' that. We'll hafta set things straight. I hate to leave, but...
Grandmother: Why did it have to come to this? I always thought our Queen Elincia was about as good as they come, lowering taxes and looking after orphans.
Nephenee: The young folk don't care 'bout that stuff. They only care about what's getting' their dander up. Then they ignore everything else. I reckon that's why we gotta do what we gotta do. If we don't step up, the whole country'll be goin 'on the compost heap.
Brom: That's why we've got to get to Queen Elincia right away. It's all gonna be just fine. If I know Her Majesty, she'll take care of this uprising in no time. Then we can return to our farms and grow some mighty good eats. All of ya just hold tight, now.

@Narration
In a rural Crimean town, a band of rebels sow the seeds of discontent. They are stopped by Brom and Nephenee, two former Crimean soldiers. However, more uprisings are sure to follow.
Brom and Nephenee decide to travel to Melior, the capital of Crimea, and inform Queen Elincia as to the gravity of the situation.

/***EOF***/
@Intro
Sanaki: Thank you for coming today, everyone. I am in your debt...all of you. The king of Gallia, Caineghis. The king of Phoenicis, Tibarn. The Serenes Royal Family, Rafiel and Reyson. And the queen of Crimea, Elincia, who worked tirelessly to arrange this meeting and generously extended her hospitality. She gave me hope when I was driven out of my country, and offered aid when all seemed lost. You have my sincere gratitude.
Sanaki: Before we begin, allow me to make a few things clear about the recent war between Begnion and the Laguz Alliance. When we received your letter stating that the senate had made scapegoats of the herons for the previous apostle's assassination, Prime Minister Sephiran and I decided to investigate the senate and prosecute them if needed. Then the senators made their move.
Caineghis: What did they do?
Sanaki: They imprisoned me in a room in the Mainal Cathedral. They then forged an arrest warrant for Sephiran and jailed him. ...I admit there had been major rifts between myself and the senators in the past. However, I had no idea that they would stoop to such deplorable acts. I should have known. This is all my fault.
Tibarn: We didn't think you were behind all this war-mongering. What you just told us confirms what we had guessed.
Sanaki: I have been forced to flee my country, but that doesn't change the fact that I am the empress of Begnion. I will not allow the senate to declare me false, nor will I stand by as they seize and ravage Begnion. I must return to my country, save my people, and take back my birthright. To accomplish all this, I would like to form an alliance with the laguz tribes. Help me save Begnion.
Caineghis: I will accept, if you agree to a few conditions. First, the immediate and total emancipation of any laguz remaining in slavery. Second, that new diplomatic relations between our peoples start with a clean slate; no bias against beorc or laguz shall be tolerated. Lastly, a full alliance between our countries, to further solidify this agreement. If you agree to these terms, I give my support. I hope that a long last the dream that both King Ramon and I held can come to fruition.
Elincia: I agree with King Caineghis completely. If these conditions are agreed to, Crimea would like to join this alliance as well.
Tibarn: Do you intend to return the Serenes Forest to the herons when you take back the throne?
Sanaki: Of course. The goddess loved the forest because the herons made their homes there. I will see to it that you can return home.
Reyson: My brother! We can finally go home! Our family can be together again, in our own homeland, for the first time in decades...
Tibarn: All right. I'm all for this. I didn't need much convincing, though. I just want to rip those idiots senators in half.
Elincia: Gallia, Phoenicis, Serenes, and Crimea shall hereby make a pledge. Apostle Sanaki, we will wholeheartedly support your effort tot return to the throne, so long as we stand united in our ideals. Please bring peace back to our lands.
Sanaki: Each of you has my deepest gratitude. I will accomplish that goal.

Ike: So, it sounds like everyone is on the same side now. That's the best news I've heard in a long time.
Sanaki: I feel the same, but it's too early to celebrate. I will not be happy until I take back my country. How we fare in the battles to come will be of the utmost importance.
Ike: The Greil Mercenaries would be glad to help. I know that we're a small unit, but we'll do our best to see the job done right.
Sanaki: I certainly hope you will. Especially since I've decided to make you the commander of our combined forces.
Ike: Wait, hold on there! What did you say?! Listen, Apostle Sanaki, I'm really flattered, but General Zelgius is much more qual--
Sanaki: Zelgius returned to the empire by himself to rescue Prime Minister Sephiran. Our army consists of the troops he left behind, as well as the armies of Crimea, Gallia, and Phoenicis. Ike, you're probably the only person on the face of Tellius who commands respect from all four countries represented here.
Ranulf: Ike, I know you're not happy about this, but you're the only person who can bridge the rift between the laguz and beorc.
Ike: No, I'm not happy about it. I thought my days of being a general ended three years ago. But I won't refuse. If you think I'm the only person who can pull this off, then I'll do my best not to let you down.
Sanaki: Thank you, Ike. Let us go meet with the armies and the soldiers you will be leading. They will want to meet their new commander.

Ike: Not again...

Sanaki: It is time to get moving. Do we have a target?
Ike: First, we'll head for Flaguerre, the fortress town between Crimea and Begnion. Since the Laguz Alliance has fought in Flaguerre already, we're familiar with the lay of the land.
Sanaki: Sounds like a good plan. Do you still resent your choice to command this army?
Ike: No offense, Apostle, but you didn't give me much of a choice in the first place. Besides, if I'm not fully committed, how can I expect these troops to be? Just remember: when this is all over, you'll be getting one heck of a bill.
Sanaki: Oh, I'm sure, and I know you'll be worth it. Speaking of which, I have something for you. Consider it a down payment.
Sigrun: I'm sure you remember this blade. It is the holy sword Ragnell. Please take it.
Ike: Are you sure about this? I returned it after the Mad King's War because you said it was one of Begnion's national treasures.
Sanaki: Indeed. This sword was used by Empress Altina, the first apostle of Begnion, back in the early days of the empire. It was one of the two swords the empress used to fight the dark god. I can think of no better person to give it to.
Ike: All right. I'd be happy to use it again. Thanks.



Crimea: Excuse me! I bring urgent news to Queen Elincia and General Ike of the apostle's army!
Elincia: What happened?!
Crimea: We've received a report that the Daein army has appeared near the border between Daein and Crimea! The Daein army demands custody of the apostle on behalf of Begnion! They will use force if necessary.
Ike: Daein wants to get in our hair again? Perfect.

Sanaki: ...I am puzzled by this. Why does Daein support the senate? Well, I suppose it doesn't matter. Ike, we must change our target.
Ike: Agreed. We have to get Daein out of our way before we do anything else.


Sanaki: So, Daein still refuses to negotiate?
Sigrun: Either they believe the senate's lies, or...the senate is pulling some strings behind the scenes.
Ike: Well, whatever the reason, we can't attack Begnion without taking care of this first.
Sanaki: I will not give up. I won't stop sending messengers until they respond. Ike, I leave you in charge here. 
Ike: Let's keep our numbers small. We shouldn't provoke them any further.
Skrimir: I understand. Gallia will stay behind.
Ike: You'll have your turn soon, Skrimir. I promise. All right, let's go!

@Battle
Goran: I cannot believe this! It's an army of sub-humans and beorc. It must be true that this apostle is a fake. The true apostle would never join forces with those filthy creatures!
Daein: The enemy has sent a messenger once again. Commander, this is the third time they've asked to negotiate.
Goran: Ignore the messengers! We must protect this bridge. That is the order from the Maiden of Dawn!

Tibarn: Hey, sorry to keep you waiting. I had a little thing back at camp that I had to deal with.
Ike: No problem, Tibarn. What kind of thing? Oh, and hey, where's Reyson?
Tibarn: He was exhausted, but he insisted on coming with me. I had to tie him down to a bed to keep him there.
Ike: Really?
Tibarn: Nah, I'm just kidding. He passed out earlier. So I have a different anchor slowing me down this time.
Leanne:  Tibarn! You're horrible! I am not an anchor!
Ike: Leanne?
Leanne: I...um, I will...fight. Yes?
Tibarn: She's Reyson's sister, for sure. The girl is as stubborn as he his! Listen up, young lady. You herons are supposed to be more like Rafiel. Quiet and graceful and all that.
Ike: Don't mind Tibarn, Leanne. We're honored to have you here.

@Boss
Goran: Followers of the false apostle! Bow down to the miracles of our savior! As long as the Maiden of Dawn watches over us, we cannot be defeated!

Goran: My death means nothing... The Maiden of Dawn...will bring victory...to Daein.

%Ike,Goran
Goran: Your troops fought bravely. I commend your effort.
Ike: But your force has been obliterated. I order you to retreat. Continue this fight and you will die.
Goran: Fool, the battle is not over yet! The Maiden of Dawn has helped us overcome every adversity...

@End
Ike: The Daein army is much stronger than it was three years ago.
Sigrun: Yes, by far. Even after the situation turned against them, every soldier fought with valor. Quite impressive.
Tanith: They kept muttering about the power of their general, this "Maiden of Dawn." The soldiers seem obsessed with her.
Ike: This might sound strange, but think of it like this: they believe in her as much as you Holy Knights believe in the apostle.
Tanith: Hmph, I understand. They are formidable and deluded, then. I shall use caution.

Sothe: Micaiah, it's over. The front line is broken. The apostle's army is crossing the bridge.
Micaiah: All right, then.. Order a retreat.
Inspector: Wh-what?! No! Are you a simpleton? Just destroy the bridge!

Micaiah: Inspector... With all due respect, Daein soldiers will also die if we destroy the bridge now.
Inspector: Those are called acceptable losses, my dear, and any losses suffered by your men are acceptable if it means stopping that army! As a representative of the senate, I will not allow you to retreat! Fight to the last man!
Micaiah: Inspector. While I respect your opinion... The final decision is up to me, as commander in chief of this army. Sothe, order the retreat. Get those men out of there before they're routed.
Inspector: Insolent little brat! How dare you disobey my orders!
Sothe: We could always leave you here while the rest of us retreat, Inspector. How's that sound?
Inspector: Y-you... I will report this incident to both your king and the senate! Start thinking of an excuse now, perhaps! 
Micaiah: Pompous fool...
Sothe: Well, I'll go order the retreat.

Sothe: Micaiah?!
Micaiah: I...I'm sorry, I...
Sothe: Don't move. I'll be right back! 

Micaiah: What's happening? I was doing so well...for a while... I feel like...fog is clouding my mind... Am I...losing my powers?

Micaiah: Funny... I always wished that I didn't have this farsight... It often feels like such a burden... But this clouded vision seems so strange. Now, I miss the clarity... Ironic, isn't it, Yune?


Rafiel: ...Hm?
Nailah: What's wrong, Rafiel?
Rafiel: I sensed something...strange. It just came out of the blue. It was some sort of voice...

Reyson: My brother, did you call me?
Rafiel: I did not. You heard it too, Reyson?
Nailah: What's going on here? What was that voice?
Rafiel: I don't know, but it's calling for us. The voice was coming from the northeast... From the direction of Daein.
Reyson: I have a bad feeling about this. Let us head for Daein. Please prepare to leave immediately. I will speak with King Caineghis and get permission to leave. 
Nailah: I hope nothing has happened to your sister.
Rafiel: As do I... All I know is that I must go there. That much is certain.

@Narration
Apostle Sanaki's army, with Ike at its head, wins a great victory over Daein at Oribes Bridge. However, Apostle Sanaki elects not to pursue the retreating Daein forces. Instead, she petitions King Pelleas for permission to pass through Daein.
After waiting for several days, she receives no reply, and Sanaki reluctantly orders a march. Avoiding the heart of Daein, the army skirts along the mountains and makes its way south.

@Conversation
Ike: I'm here. What do you want?
Sanaki: Hmph. Don't look so sour.
Ike: I always look like this, Apostle Sanaki.
Sanaki: Ah, yes. That's true. Well, I didn't summon you to talk about your grumpy expressions. I wanted to give you something before we set off for battle.
Ike: What is it?
Sanaki: Do you know what this is?
Ike: Not a clue.
Sanaki: When I fled the cathedral, I took some valuables with me. This is called a master crown. It's said to release a beorc's hidden power.
Ike: I've never heard of it.
Sanaki: Not everyone can use it, so think before you pass it on to someone.
Ike: All right, I'll take it. Thank you.

Sigrun: General Ike. Thank you for helping the apostle. I appreciate it from the bottom of my heart.
Ike: I would have refused, if I'd known that I'd be commanding the entire army.
Sigrun: That's why we didn't tell you beforehand.
Ike: That's a pretty devious move, Sigrun.
Sigrun: Here are some funds, so you can properly prepare for the upcoming battle. Show us how you've grown since the days of the Mad King's War, General.

Kieran: Rahh! Hyahh! Hahh!
Oscar: ...
Kieran: Hiyah! Umph! Hahh!
Oscar: You really push yourself in training, don't you, Kieran?
Kieran: Huh!? Ah, Oscar! You snuck up on me! Only a true rival of mine could accomplish such a feat!
Oscar: I've been watching for half an hour.
Kieran: What!? Then why didn't you say hello? And I would have expected better manners!
Oscar: I did. You didn't notice.
Kieran: Ah, yes! My concentration while training is unbreakable! No one can distract me!
Oscar: Hmm. I wonder if he realizes that he contradicts everything he says.
Kieran: What was that!? If you have something to say, let it out! Speak like a man! Stand tall!
Oscar: Yes, yes. Whatever you say. Here, I got this for you.
Kieran: What is this?
Oscar: This is an Imbue scroll. Imbue is a skill you should learn, especially since you always train until you're soaked in your own blood.
Kieran: I've never heard of such a skill. Is it special?
Oscar: Oh, yes. It's very special.
Kieran: Why would you give such a precious thing to me?!
Oscar: Well, um... I just told you.
Kieran: I cannot accept it! I accept no charity from rivals!
Oscar: Why do you have to be like this?
Kieran: We are equals. I need no favors from you! Run along, now.
Oscar: Sigh.
Kieran: I don't have the time to talk to you. I'm too busy training! Go on, leave!
Oscar: Ahem... It was meant as a symbol of friendship for my lifelong rival.
Kieran: What?!
Oscar: But I guess if you won't accept it, I'll find someone else who will.
Kieran: Wait! I'll take it.
Oscar: You'd swallow your own words?
Kieran: Ugh! Never! However... I note that your lifelong rival is me, and no one else! If your gift will mark me as your lifelong rival, I must have it!
Oscar: That's what I like about you, Sir Simpleton.
Kieran: You insult me!?
Oscar: No, that was a compliment. You're a very...simple...knight. Living only for battle and whatnot.
Kieran: Great! Thanks!
Oscar: Life is boring without you, Kieran.
/***EOF***/
@Cutscene
Begnion Soldier: Find anything?
Begnion Soldier: Not yet, sir, no.
Begnion Soldier: Someone's gotta be here. Keep looking.
Begnion Soldier: Sir!

Begnion Soldier: We're wasting our time. There's no one here.
Begnion Soldier: I know I heard something...
Micaiah:  Hush, Yune! Please, don't cry. If they hear you, you'll give us away.

Begnion Soldier: Who's there?

Begnion Soldier: Is it the Dawn Brigade?
Begnion Soldier: No. It was just a bird.

Begnion Soldier: Ha ha ha! Thought we didn't see you?

Begnion Soldier: Look... Silver hair...
Begnion Soldier: If it's the fortune-teller, we'll be heroes! Without her, the Dawn Brigade is nothing.

Begnion Soldier: Oh, the general's going to love this. Bind her.
Begnion Soldier: Sir.

Begnion Soldier: Listen up, lass. If you don't want to get hurt, don't struggle.

Begnion Soldier: She's not alone!

Sothe: Micaiah.
Micaiah: Sothe...
Begnion Soldier: Got you now!

Micaiah: Ekarif Magae Teiodasto Ieraka!

Begnion Soldier: My eyes!
Sothe: Good job, Micaiah. Let's go.
Micaiah: Right. Yune!

@Intro 
Edward: Something must have happened to him.
Micaiah: Don't worry. He'll be here.
Edward: Hey, I have an idea... Micaiah, why don't you use your farsight to see when Leonardo will arrive?
Micaiah: Edward, you know that's not how it works. I foresee some things, but I don't get to choose what I see.
Edward: I was just teasing! Still, Leonardo's never late. Something must have—-
???: H-help! Someone, please help us!
Lady: Bandits! Bandits are attacking the town! Run away! Who knows what the brutes will do if they catch you!
Micaiah: Where is the Imperial Occupation Army this time? How can they keep the peace when they're nowhere to be found?
Lady: Who, the Begnion soldiers?! Hah! They don't care a lick about us! We lost the war, and they won. We're nothing to them.
Lady: They're only interested in chasing down the Dawn Brigade. They let the real scoundrels run wild and brutalize us.
Micaiah: They're worse than useless! We'll be glad to help you. Just find someplace to hide, and leave those bandits to us.
Edward: And don't worry about us. We happen to be members of that same Dawn Brigade that the Begnion troops are so interested in!
Boy: What! Really?! You guys are in the Dawn Brigade?! Wow, my friends and I talk about you all the time!
Lady: You? But you're just children! Oh, how Daein has fallen... Children, forced to fight and steal for the good of the poor.
Lady: But we can't fight the rogues, so we'll take you up on your offer. Please be careful. They're slice clean through you if they can.

Pugo: Listen up, you louts! This town is nothin' but idiot kids and drooling graybeards. Steal everything you can!

Micaiah: Yune, it's dangerous here. Go find someplace safe for now.

@Battle
Ruffian: Heh heh heh! A pretty little girl like you'll fetch a pretty penny for me! Now be a good girl and come to papa.

Ruffian: What did you say? That better not have been an insult, you... Huh!?

Micaiah: No matter the manner of man, the goddess judges with an even hand.

Leonardo: Micaiah!
Micaiah: Leonardo! How did you find us?
Leonardo: A little bird told me. Yours, in fact.

Leonardo: What were you two thinking, taking on these bandits alone? That's beyond reckless.
Micaiah: I'm sorry, Leonardo. We couldn't just leave the helpless villagers to these monsters. Please, help us fight them.

@Boss
Pugo: Who do you brats think you are, the Dawn Brigade?

Pugo: Aghhh! What just happened?!

%Micaiah,Pugo
Pugo: You give proper thieves a bad name. Hah! You like charity? Come closer! I'll show you some charity!
Micaiah: These people work hard to feed their families mere scraps. Then you come along and steal what little they've earned.
Pugo: Shut up, kid! I work hard, too! You want honest? Once I've sold you, I'll have earned an honest penny!

@End
Edward: Fantastic! We won! It's just like you said, Micaiah. They were no match for us!
Micaiah: Yune, come here.

???: You did it!

Lady: Thank you so much! We owe you our lives.
???: You there! What are you doing? Stop immediately!

Edward: Well, well, well. Look who decided to show up... Begnion soldiers. They certainly took their time, didn't they?
Leonardo: We mustn't be caught. Micaiah! Edward! Make a break for it. Run!
Micaiah:  I'm sorry. We have to leave.
Lady: I know. Thank you again for all you've done. Now, go! Run!
Boy: Hey, lady! My name's Nico! When I grow up, I want to be just like you guys! Come back sometime!

Begnion: Hold it! Stop right there!
???: Who are you bellowing at, soldier?
Begnion: General Jarod?! Wh-when did you arrive?
Jarod: Answer my question, maggot. I want to know who you were yelling at and why you did nothing but yell at them.
Begnion: S-sorry, sir. We suspect they were from the Dawn Brigade, a band of thieves that targets goods levied from the town. People say they give what they've stolen back to the villagers and strut around acting like heroes.
Begnion: They're said to have a witch among them, a girl called the Silver- Haired Maiden. They say she can heal wounds instantly by laying her hands on any injury. Townspeople treat her like a savior.
Jarod: And? What have you been doing about this band of fools?
Begnion: Sir. A few days ago we stormed their hideout. We found a girl much like the Silver-Haired Maiden... We ran the dogs from their den, but they were cunning and cautious, and...we lost them.
Jarod: I see. I'm beginning to understand.
Begnion: How do you mean, sir?
Jarod: I'm beginning to understand exactly how incompetent you all are!

Begnion: Urk!
Jarod: Make the villagers talk. I want to know who these bandits are and where they're hiding.
Begnion: Y-yes, sir! Understood, sir!

Alder: I don't care who they are. The more kick they have in them, the more fun for us, don't you think, sir?
Jarod: Precisely. Overseeing this dusty old town is wearing thin. A little fresh game is just what I need.

@Narration
The northeastern nation of Daein lost a bloody war with neighboring Crimea three years ago. Crimea, however, abdicated its right to rule Daein and passed sovereignty of its former enemy to the powerful Begnion Empire. Daein's future is now subject to the whims of the empire.
Begnion's occupations forces have gathered all of Daein's men of fighting age and put them to work in labor camps. Their work is brutal and void of purpose, designed to break both body and spirit. The remaining population faces poverty and starvation as the fields lie fallow. A band of young heroes has escaped the Begnion army to form a group called the Dawn Brigade. Fighting for a free Daein, they alone have stood against Begnion's forces. They alone have shouldered the hopes of their nation.
Among the company is a young girl named Micaiah, who is said to possess mystical powers. The people of Daein have come to know her as the "Silver- Haired Maiden." They have come to think of her as the savior for whom they had been waiting.
Begnion's forces have tried time and time again to capture and silence the Dawn Brigade. However, Micaiah's ability to sense impending danger has thus far allowed the Dawn Brigade to evade the empire's grasp.

/***EOF***/
@Intro 
Tormod: Listen and be amazed! BIG news afoot! The apostle is sending an inspection team to investigate the occupation army's abuses!
Micaiah: Really?
Tormod: She sent me a message that preparations are finally complete. But wait...it gets better. She also issued an imperial edict to the occupation forces telling them to cease all military action immediately!
Micaiah: Does that mean the fighting is over? That we've won?
Sothe: Indeed. It's hard to believe it's over. It almost seems too easy.
Tormod: And best of all, Duke Persis is leading the inspection team! We'll be home free the moment they arrive. Our worries are over.
Sothe: Duke Persis...Lord Sephiran? So Apostle Sanaki's dispatching one of the empire's greatest men to handle this.
Micaiah: What kind of man is he?
Tormod: He is amazing...the best person ever! He's incredibly influential and high up, but he never stood on ceremony with us. Well, go on, you guys! Don't just stand there. You have to spread the news!
Sothe: We have to spread the news? Aren't you going with us?
Tormod: Umm...nah. It's mostly your doing. We'll hold back...let you take the glory.
Micaiah: It's Izuka, isn't it? You don't want to come because he'll be with the prince.
Tormod: Well, yeah, basically.
Micaiah: All right...but wait here! We'll come right back once we've announced the good news.

Begnion: ...In light of which, Her Imperial Highness, Empress Sanaki, has conveyed to you this edict. Occupation forces are to hereby lay down all arms, convene in Daein Keep, and await the inspection team.
Jarod: Hmmm...
Begnion: Duke Numida maintains that your forces performed alleged abuses independently...in flagrant violation of his orders. The apostle, in her mercy, will hear your testimony. Do not abuse her magnanimous spirit...and lose your small advantage.

Jarod: Hah! What a magnificently ruthless maneuver. I didn't know Numida had it in him. Disowning the entire occupation army...and framing me for their actions. Brilliant.
Alder: So then...the game is over. Might we at least drag Duke Numida down with us?
Jarod: Not a chance. We are proof that Duke Numida--and therefore the entire senate--is corrupt. No doubt they'll work together to silence us. Besides, there's more tantalizing prey than those tottering relics. If I'm to fall, so too should the one who upended our plans and drove us to this dead end... That girl.
Alder: Oh... I like that. Our final mission.
Jarod: You create a diversion with the troops tonight, after dark. And I will seek our target...the girl's silver-maned head.


Izuka: A-hhrrmm! Silence! Prince Pelleas would now like to favor you with a word. You may begin, my prince.
Daein: Am I dreaming? Everything looks so delicious! What should I eat first...?
Pelleas: Everyone, you've done a fine job. Once the inspection team arrives, Daein will be free once again! In anticipation of our emancipation, I invite you to eat and drink to your hearts' content.

Micaiah: ...Whew... Yune! What is it? You didn't need to slip away from the banquet, too.

Micaiah: Silly you! You're kind of a mysterious bird, you know that? How is it you can fly around even at night? 
Micaiah: Oh, Yune...for some reason...I feel so tired lately. ...But it won't be long... I'll go back home to Nevassa...and then...save Daein...

Jarod: So, you escaped the idiot's ball to be alone? How trusting of you, Silver-Haired Maiden... No--I'm sorry--"Priestess of Dawn." If you really can work miracles, you'd best work one up for yourself now.
Micaiah: Hm? What? Oh! Begnion soldiers!

Micaiah: General Jarod?! Why are you here?
Jarod: I'm doomed, thanks to you. But if I have to go down, I'm taking someone with me... The vice-general to the Daein Liberation Army, the revered "Priestess of Dawn."
Micaiah: Even if you kill me, the kingdom of Daein will be reborn. As long as the prince survives, the people will fight.
Jarod: Hah! The prince! He's a sham, a travesty, a clod of mud no amount of polishing could shine. The real jewel--whose radiance attracts the people like moths to flame--is you, Priestess. And so I shall steal you and extinguish Daein's light of hope! Know despair, Priestess of Dawn! 
Micaiah: Ah!

Jarod: Guhahh!
Micaiah: Who are you?
Black Knight: Be at ease, Maiden. I shall not let him harm you. I was once one of the Four Riders, serving the army of old Daein. If you recall the name of the Black Knight, you will withdraw from this place at once.
Jarod: Riiiight! That's precious. You're the legendary Black Knight? Maybe you haven't heard...he died in the war. But let's put your claim to the test, if only to indulge my own amusement.
Black Knight: Then have at me...and learn your folly.
Jarod: In due time. But before I bother, why don't you have a go-round with my restless minions? Douse the torches!

Black Knight: Maiden. I shall be your shield. Remain by my side.
Micaiah: I will. I know I can trust you.

@Battle-Talk 
%Micaiah,Black Knight
Micaiah: Sir Knight, how did you know I was in danger?
Black Knight: That is not important right now. Are you injured?
Micaiah: No, I'm all right.
Black Knight: Maiden, stay by me. I will not let them harm you.
Micaiah: I know you won't. Thank you.

@Boss
Jarod: I see you're pretty impressed with yourself!
Black Knight: Did you think the likes of you could be a worthy opponent for me? Know your place.

%Micaiah,Jarod
Micaiah: General Jarod! Your occupation army has caused untold suffering to the people of Daein... The time has come! You must atone for your deeds!
Jarod: As if I should care one whit about the wretched worms I trample!

@End
Black Knight: Make your peace. This blow will be your end.
Jarod: Heh... How kind of you...

Alder: Gugrh...
Jarod: Alder?! You... Why are you here?
Alder: I'd rather fight beside my general than create a distraction with the other soldiers.
Jarod: You idiot! Who asked you to join me?
Alder: General Jarod... You are a terror to work under. Even so...I've always sensed a kindred spirit in you. I will follow you and fight for you...to the very gates of the abyss... 
Jarod: He was a good soldier... What now? Why don't you kill me?
Black Knight: My sword is not made for killing those who will not raise their weapons.
Jarod: You've got to be kidding me!
Micaiah: Stop! Stop it, both of you! A man has died protecting you. Don't waste his sacrifice!
Jarod: This is not the end! 
Micaiah: No. It's not.
Black Knight: You would simply let him go?
Micaiah: He is not ours to judge. He belongs to the apostle now. I suppose he must bury his fallen friend and pray before facing her.

Micaiah: You have my thanks for saving me.
Black Knight: There is no need for thanks.
Sothe: Micaiah, are you safe?!
Sothe: You! Micaiah, run!
Micaiah: Sothe! It's OK. This knight just saved my life!
Sothe: What?! Micaiah, do you know who this is?
Micaiah: Everybody knows who he is, Sothe! He is the Black Knight. One of the Four Riders under King Ashnard, and the strongest swordsman--
Sothe: Exactly! The scum that General Ike defeated in Nados Castle in Crimea, three years ago. So how can he be here now...alive?
Black Knight: You are correct, Sothe. Ike did defeat me in that battle, in a fashion. But as you can see, I managed to escape.
Sothe: What do you want?
Black Knight: For Daein to raise its banner as a kingdom once again. I came here to protect those who are necessary for that dream.
Micaiah: Sothe, General Jarod was here a moment ago. If the Black Knight hadn't stepped in, Jarod would have killed me.
Sothe: What?! But...I don't see his corpse here. And that means...he's still alive, isn't he?
Micaiah: Yes. There was another soldier who sacrificed his life protecting Jarod. I presume Jarod's burying him now. Oh! Oh, no...
Sothe: What is it?!
Micaiah: I see a dark cloud... It's dimming the light of hope... By letting Jarod go, I may have allowed something terrible to happen...
Sothe: You aren't sure?
Micaiah: Sothe, I hadn't told you, but I haven't been feeling well lately. My mind feels...foggy. Things I could always see clearly are now dim and vague. I may have committed us to an irreversible fate.
Black Knight: I shall aid you. No matter what Jarod may plot, I will prevent it.
Sothe: Micaiah and I don't want your help!
Micaiah: Sothe, stop that! In King Ashnard's War, you severed below General Ike, and you and the Black Knight were enemies. But now, you are comrades with the same goal--Daein's restoration. Listen to me. The Black Knight was Daein's strongest general. We need him.
Black Knight: And I am willing to serve.
Micaiah: Sir Knight... That you should come to us now, is surely the will of the goddess. I thank you for your aid just now, and ask you to lend us your strength a while longer.
Black Knight: May my sword serve you well, Maiden of Dawn.
Sothe: I don't like this...

@Narration
A figure from Daein's past appears unexpectedly in the night. A figure thought to have perished in the Mad King's War, the blood-stained right hand of the king himself, the mysterious Black Knight.
The Black Knight protects Micaiah against Jarod's cowardly surprise attack. However, Micaiah suspects that Jarod has one last move to make. Deprived of his chance to capture Micaiah, Jarod abandons all notions of retreat or negotiation. Instead, he makes plans for revenge. He murders an emissary from his homeland of Begnion and reclaims control of Daein Keep.
From within the keep, he launches a savage barrage of catapult fire, all but destroying the castle town. The momentary peace that arrived with the Begnion emissary shatters along with Nevassa's walls, and the people of the city see their kin and their capital crushed under a rain of stone. This treachery proves too much for them, and their grief explodes into rage.
Micaiah and company have pitched camp on a nearby hillside. When this merciless attack begins, its brutality leaves them lost for words.

@Conversation 
Pelleas: Sothe. How unusual to see you alone.
Sothe: Prince Pelleas. You here to see Micaiah?
Pelleas: Yes. At least, I intended to. But she is quite popular, isn’t she? She’s always so busy talking to everyone that I can never get near her.
Sothe: They’re your soldiers. Tell them to get out of the way.
Pelleas: No, I can’t do that. My job is to be the symbol of Daein’s liberation. But the Priestess of Dawn is no mere symbol. For her, the soldiers will gladly give their lives.
Sothe: Prince Pelleas?
Pelleas: Oh, don’t worry, Sothe. I’m not jealous, if that’s what you’re thinking. It isn’t like that. Although I have to admit, I do envy her from time to time.
Sothe: Hm.
Pelleas: I almost forgot. Here. These war funds are for you.
Sothe: But the war’s over. And, besides, this is a small fortune.
Pelleas: Yes, well, share it with the troops if you like. I may not be much a leader, but I truly appreciate the sacrifices everyone has made. They deserve something in return. Divide it up as you see fit. I trust your judgment.
Sothe: Prince Pelleas, you should be the one to give the troops their reward.

Jill: Lady Micaiah.
Micaiah: Hello, Jill. What are you doing here?
Jill: I saw you walking over here as I was heading back to my tent. Is something wrong? You shouldn’t be leaving camp by yourself.
Micaiah: I’m just exhausted from talking to so many people. But there’s no need for concern. I just need some time to myself.
Jill: Now that you mention it, you do look a little pale. Why not rest in your tent? It’d be much more comfortable.
Micaiah: I don’t want Sothe and the others to know how tired I am. They worry too much.
Jill: Ah, I can see that. Sothe seems so detached from everything, unless it involves you... He gets so... worked up. He strikes me as a bit overprotective.
Micaiah: We’ve always lived by ourselves, just the two of us. I don’t think he can help it.
Jill: Then I shall bring you some medicine, and I’ll make sure no one sees me. I’ll meet you at your tent.
Micaiah: Oh, no, that won’t be necessary! Do you see that tree? I’ll be resting over there. I should recover in no time.
Jill: But...
Micaiah: I’ll be safe. We’re still in camp. Besides, don’t you have an errand of your own to take care of? It must be really important to leave the feast so early in the evening.
Jill: Oh, no, not really. I just thought I’d write a letter to a friend. That’s all.
Micaiah: To the man you told me about? The one you run a wyvern delivery service with?
Jill: Well... um, yes. You know everything, don’t you, Lady Micaiah?
Micaiah: You’re going to tell him that the fighting is over, right?
Jill: Yes. More than anything, he despises trouble. He made a delivery to Begnion, and never returned. I’m sure it’s the war that has kept him away.
Micaiah: Really?
Jill: Well, indirectly, at least. To be honest, it’s probably more about his napping. Give him a few minutes of free time, and he’s sure to close his eyes and drift away. The war would certainly disrupt his sleep schedule.
Micaiah: What an... interesting fellow. Well, you should write him and let him know it’s safe to return.
Jill: Are you sure you’re all right? You’re not pushing yourself too hard?
Micaiah: I’m fine. Please, don’t worry about me.
Jill: All right. I’ll let you relax alone, then. Oh, but here... Please take this.
Micaiah: What is it?
Jill: It’s a Pass scroll. It might come in handy. Please keep it, if you’d like.
Micaiah: Thank you, Jill. I will.
Jill: Good night, Lady Micaiah.
/***EOF***/
@Intro
Ranulf: This might be the end of our war. The Northern and Central Armies have merged. A force of that size is too powerful for us. If Tibarn and Naesala can't help us, it might be a good idea to go back to Gallia and regroup. Convincing Skrimir won't be easy, but I can't let our people get killed in a hopeless battle.
Ike: Understood. Ranulf, this is your war, so I'll follow your orders. I have to say, though, retreating won't be easy. According to Soren, the Central Army has mobilized and begun marching on our position during the last few days.
Ranulf: They finally brought in a competent commander, huh? Hmmm... Our path is blocked both ways.  Hey!
Tibarn: Hello, boys. It's good to know you two still hang out together.
Ranulf: Tibarn! Glad to see you're safe! But, what happened?! Didn't the bird tribes hit the supply unit? The Begnion Central Army is here, and they're marching on us!
Tibarn: Talk later, eat now. Sorry, but I gotta put something in my stomach and get some rest...

Ike: How's Tibarn?
Ranulf: He's resting inside that tent over there. Ike, did you see them? Did you see his wings?
Ike: Yeah. They were covered in blood. He's not hurt, so it must be someone else's...
Ranulf: I have this awful feeling... A feeling that something terrible has happened. I really hope I'm wrong...

Reyson: Ike! Ranulf!
Ike: Reyson! You're here, too?
Janaff: Your Highness! Please wait!
Reyson: I have to check on him. I'm worried about Tibarn.
Ulki: We're worried too, but Reyson can't just let him be for a while.
Ike: Janaff, Ulki, what's going on? What happened to you out there?

Ranulf: Naesala and the ravens of Kilvas betrayed us? Again?
Janaff: I'm so mad I can barely see straight! The ravens were informants. They told Begnion our battle strategy.
Ulki: It was a trap. The supply unit we raided turned out to be the Central Army itself. The troops were under the command of Begnion's most famous general, Zelgius.
Ike: General Zelgius? This just got a lot worse...
Ranulf: You've heard of him?
Ike: I met him during the Mad King's War. He's powerful, experienced, and clever. One of the best generals of our time.
Janaff: Yeah. For a beorc, he was quite powerful all right. Tibarn, while shifted, mind you, attacked this Zelgius guy. Zelgius didn't even budge an inch. But all of a sudden he stopped fighting and said, "We've delayed you long enough. If you cherish the lives of your people, return home at once."
Ike: He said that?
Ulki: So the king made a decision. We flew night and day and reached Phoenicis, but...it was too late. Save for the elderly, women, and children, they were all...
Reyson: I also heard what happened, and... I just couldn't believe it. Naesala has betrayed us once again. I cannot believe he'd play a role in wiping out Phoenicis...
???: Hey, we're not wiped out yet.
Reyson: Huh?

Reyson: Tibarn!
Tibarn: I'm alive and well. My people are few, but they still live. Phoenicis is still a country. Janaff. Ulki. You know what we must do.
Janaff: Of course!
Ulki: Yes. Begnion and Kilvas will burn for this.

Tibarn: ...So, that's the whole story. Sorry we were late, but now we're here to stay and see this war out. Don't tell me you kittens are going to run off with your tails between your legs. I won't accept that.
Ranulf: Of course not, King Tibarn! I'll get Skrimir right now. A slight delay, but now that we've merged with the hawk tribe, we have the strength to fight. 

Soren: Our goal is to cross the Ribahn. The core of our forces will ford the river and attack the Central Army head-on. Ranulf, you'll need to form a small unit of your best warriors and lead them behind enemy lines, undetected. Can you do it?
Ranulf: No sweat. We'll do some officer hunting and keep their leaders' attention on us.
Soren: Good. But a distraction alone will not get us across the river. They've got the terrain and Zelgius in their favor.
Skrimir: Bah! Use fewer words, tiny beorc! Tell us what we must do! Some of us have a battle to fight!
Soren: Don't interrupt me again, Skrimir. All these words may be the only thing that can possibly win this battle. As I was saying, while Ranulf and his men sow confusion in the rear ranks, a group of hawk laguz will carry the Greil Mercenaries south, around the battlefield. We'll cross the river and make our way to the supply train, which also serves as the senators' camp.
Tibarn: Ahhh, I see what you're doing. You're going to involve the senators and have them start messing things up.
Soren: Precisely. Zelgius is the military commander, but the senators have authority over him. If attacked, they will panic and request aid. He will be forced to return and rescue them. Zelgius is a soldier through and through. He will not disobey an order, no matter how foolish it might be. Once he leaves, their front line will crumble. That's when you advance. Tibarn and Skrimir will lead the charge. That's all. Is everyone clear on what they have to do?
Skrimir: Hmph. I still dislike beorc tactics. I'd rather face my enemy and give him my name before I snap his neck in my jaws. But in order to defeat cowards, we must use the weapons of cowards. Let's go.

Levail: General Zelgius! The men are in position.
Zelgius: Good work. Hm... It's becoming foggy.
Levail: It looks like the hawk tribe has joined with the main force, but I'm sure this fog will hinder them.
Zelgius: I wouldn't be too sure about that. The fog might actually be a boon to them. We'll wait and see what move they make.
Begnion: General! We hear splashing. The Laguz Alliance is on the move!



Ranulf: The van's marching. Halfway across the river already. There's no point in waiting.  Oh, well. Enemy'll spot them soon.
Skrimir: Then it's time to fight. You should go.
Ranulf: Don't remind me. I hate flying. Anyway, give the word, will you? 
Skrimir:  No need. Our friends heard every word.

Tibarn: Ah. Finally it's time. I've had enough of sitting around. To wing, brothers! Keep up with me if you can!


Begnion: My lord?
Zelgius:  It's nothing. I'm needed elsewhere. Keep them engaged until I return.
Begnion:  Yes, sir.

Ranulf: Well, well... Sorry to drop in unannounced. We thought it best to hunt the strongest prey first.
Zelgius:  Of course. Interesting maneuver.
Ranulf: Will you draw your blade?
Zelgius: I trust you know who you face. Zelgius, commander of this army. If you are not worthy of fighting me, then you are only wasting my time. 
Ranulf: I'm Ranulf, right-hand to Gallia's future king.  Will that do?
Zelgius: We shall see. I shall accept your challenge.

Zelgius: At your ready.


Senator: What is all that noise? And at this hour!
Veyona: A battle has begun on the other side of the woods, near the river.
Senator: Then tell Zelgius to wipe out the sub-humans quickly and quiet down! I cannot sleep with all this racket. Don't you peasants know I need my beauty sleep?! I should have you all flogged, you inconsiderate fools! 
Veyona: Wretched snob...


Ike: We're in. Soren, let's go over the plan one more time.
Soren: Our objective is to destroy the enemy supplies. The senators store their food and personal effects in crates. If we burn those crates, the senators will likely pull their troops back to protect their own hides.
Ike: So, while the laguz distract the enemy, we force the gate open, storm inside, and burn all the supplies.
Soren: Exactly.
Titania: We can also set their horses loose. That should add to the confusion.
Soren: Agreed. Also, please try not to hurt the senators themselves. Harming them might cause us trouble later on, especially once the fighting is over.
Ike: All right. We've got to finish before the fog burns off. Let's get this done. Attack!

@Battle
Begnion: Enemies in the camp! We're under attack!
Veyona: How interesting! I never expected them to attack this particular camp. While the senators may deserve to get kicked around a little bit, I cannot let my general down. I shall protect this camp with all my power.  Soldiers of Begnion! Wipe out the bandits! Kill every last one of them!

@Visit
Begnion: You're with the Laguz Alliance? W-wait! Please! I don't want to die for those useless, decrepit old senators! I'm getting out of here. You can take whatever you want from this stash. Thanks!


Lass: What? Um...yes, I was ordered to keep the lord's valuables neat and tidy. But the lord, he ran away, and, well... What, this? He told me it was very precious. Here, you take it.


Senator: Aaaaahhh!  P-please! I beg of you! Spare me! Mercy!

@Boss
Veyona: Protect the supplies, men! If anything is ruined, the senators will have our hides! We cannot let this camp fall into chaos! For the honor of General Zelgius, protect the stores!

%Ike,Veyona
Veyona: The laguz assault was a decoy, and your real objective was this camp? You're more clever than I expected. This isn't the strategy of laguz. It must have been planned by beorc.
Ike: Our objective is only to burn these supplies. Step aside, and I'll spare your life.
Veyona: You know I can't do that. Our masters may be fools, but we are their soldiers nonetheless. Our duty is to carry out orders from our masters.
Ike: I thought you'd say that. But I have a duty as well.

@Boss
Veyona: Protect the supplies... Stay...calm...

@End
Ike: The fog is about to clear. Our work is done. Let's pull back!

Zelgius: I'm impressed that you've held out this long, but it's over now. Good-bye, Ranulf.

Zelgius: Pray to the goddess. You're finished.
Ranulf: Ahh... I tried...
Zelgius: Farewell. 

Zelgius: What?!


Tibarn:  Hey, there. Y'know, you look kinda familiar.
Zelgius: The king of Phoenicis! Why did you transform? Do you not wish to fight me?
Tibarn: Oh, I wish to fight you, all right. Unfortunately, I don't really have the time. So, I'll let you go this time.
Zelgius: What do you mean?

Begnion: General Zelgius! You must return at once! Our supply camp is in flames! We need you to take control of the situation!
Zelgius: What?!

Zelgius: I see. Now I understand.
Tibarn: You were kind enough to tell me of the attack on my country. I'm only returning the favor.
Zelgius: Understood. I accept the favor, then. 
Tibarn: I'll let you go this time. Next time we meet, keep your sword drawn and make sure you've said your prayers.

Ranulf: Ugh...
Tibarn: Hey, how are you doing? Thanks to Ike, the army is crossing the river as we speak. We should go join Skrimir. Can you move?
Ranulf: No...
Tibarn: Damn. Fine, I'll carry you. Don't get thrown off, kid. You better hang on tight!

@Narration
The Laguz Alliance, bolstered by the hawk tribe and by Soren's tactical genius, thunders across the Begnion-held river. Emboldened by their success, they move east with amazing speed and capture the northern stronghold, Castle Seliora. The Laguz Alliance has made a vital step in its march toward the Begnion capital, Sienne.
Begnion has now lost a valuable defensive line in the Ribahn River, and the Central Army has been forced to retreat east, taking refuge in Castle Gaddos. The morale of the Begnion soldiers is kept high by their faith in General Zelgius, while the Begnion nobles smolder with resentment at their defeat.

@Conversation 
Tibarn: Your strategist is something else. Does he have some kind of magic hat that he pulls all his crazy ideas out of?
Ike: Well, I do pay him plenty for them.
Titania: Soren said this mission would fail without help from the Phoenicis Army. We’re asking you to take a very big risk, King Tibarn.
Tibarn: We can handle it. We can do anything if it involves teaching those vermin in Begnion a thing or two.
Ranulf: Soren has even answered some of Skrimir’s more insane requests. He doesn’t listen to a word I say, but when Soren talks strategy, he’s all ears.
Ike: Is that why he hasn’t been complaining during the briefings?
Ranulf: He says he looks forward to what the little strategist will say next. It looks to me like Soren’s charmed his way into the most powerful position in this army.
Titania: I’m glad to hear it. He’s changed, hasn’t he?
Ranulf: Yeah, I think so. He still doesn’t say much, but he’s a lot more at ease these days. He used to be completely closed off, rejecting anyone who tried to get close. Like he’d lock himself away, all alone in his own little world.
Ike: We all lost and gained something during the Mad King’s War. Maybe it wasn’t a complete waste, after all.
Ranulf: Do you think we’ll feel the same way about this war when it’s over?
Ike: Who knows? We’ll have to survive it first.
Ranulf: Fair enough.
/***EOF***/
@Opening
Three years ago, Crimea freed itself from Daein tyranny. Its nobles used that freedom to berate the queen and scrabble for power. Disgusted with their greed and arrogance, Ike and the Greil Mercenaries left the court behind and returned to work. Thanks to their efforts and to Queen Elincia's even-handed rule, Crimea has avoided a bloody civil war.
Before departing the capital once again, Ike receives disquieting news from Queen Elincia. The Black Knight, the man who murdered Ike's father, has once again been seen in Daein. The queen's words hang heavy over Ike as he leads the mercenary group back to their headquarters.

@Intro
Mist: Wow, how long has it been since we were here? It sure feels great to be home.
Ike: Yeah, we've been away for too long... Dealing with Crimean nobles always seems to take longer than it should. At least now we can finally get some rest.
Titania: Still, it was nice to be needed, don't you think? Especially for a band of mercenaries as poor as we are.
Mist: You know, Ike, if you hadn't renounced your lordship, we wouldn't have to run around like this to support ourselves.
Ike: Mist, I...
Mist: Oh, I know. I'm just teasing you, silly. Besides, I'd rather spend my time helping people. Who wants to live like some overstuffed noble, anyway? Definitely not me! We have Father's legacy to look after, as well: the Greil Mercenaries.
Soren: Ike, a visitor to see you.
Ike: A visitor? Who is it?
Ranulf: Long time no see, Ike. I've been looking all over Crimea for you. You're never home!
Ike: Ranulf! How are you, my old friend? How's everyone in Gallia? Is Caineghis well?
Ranulf: Everyone's doing great. We laguz don't take ill too easily, so it's hard not to be "well."
Ike: Seeing you again brings back memories. We couldn't have won the war if not for Gallia's aid...and yours especially.
Ranulf: Well, same goes for you. Who knows where Gallia would be if not for Ike and the Greil Mercenaries!
Ike: Speaking of old friends... I saw Princess Leanne in the Crimean royal court. Apparently, she'd been looking for me, too. She said, "Please save my brothers." Do you know what she's talking about?
Ranulf: So, she's heard. Let me get straight to the point, Ike. I have some bad news. War has come to us once again.
Ike: What?!
Ranulf: The Laguz Alliance, which is made up of Gallia, Phoenicis, and Kilvas, is setting out against Begnion. The situation has escalated very quickly.
Ike: "Escalated" seems a bit soft. I know there are problems between the laguz and Begnion, but I thought things were getting better.
Ranulf: Rafiel, the eldest son of the herons, brought back some disturbing news from Daein. He'd learned that Begnion senators ordered the herons' extermination. This spurred the laguz to strike against Begnion. That's why I came looking for you, Ike. We need your help.

@Narration
Rafiel, eldest prince of the heron clan, returns in the company of the wolf queen, Nailah, and the mage Tormod to tell a dire tale. The shocking story he relates ignites a terrible fury in the hearts of the laguz. The assassination of the previous Begnion apostle sparked the massacre of the heron clan, as well as the burning of their home, the Serenes Forest.
That murder and the resulting catastrophes were long thought to be the work of Daein's former ruler, the Mad King, Ashnard. Now, however, Prince Rafiel, a survivor of the massacre, reveals that those directly responsible...were none other than the senators of Begnion.
Upon hearing this tale, the hawk king, Tibarn, is consumed with an unspeakable rage. He shares this information with the raven king, Naesala, and the beast king, Caineghis, and they form a Laguz Alliance. Together with the heron royal family, they send messengers to the leadership of Begnion, demanding an explanation from the senators. Begnion rebuffs their requests, however, denying any wrongdoing and refusing to investigate Rafiel's claims. As if to emphasize their decision to silence the laguz inquiries, the empire goes so far as to murder an alliance messenger. This callous act of arrogant defiance pushes the alliance into declaring war upon the Begnion Empire.
Gallia's sub-commander, Ranulf, considers the merits of attempting to simply overpower Begnion. He recognizes, however, that pitting brute force against Begnion's magic and tactical prowess will result in massive alliance casualties. He decides to enlist the strength and knowledge of his old wartime ally, Ike, and the Greil Mercenaries.
Ike is an acquaintance of Begnion's apostle, however, and is at first reluctant to become involved in the conflict. Yet, when he considers the senators' cold-blooded murder of the alliance messenger, he can feel the anger that burns in the laguz's hearts. Determined to force the senators to answer for their crimes, he agrees to help the Laguz Alliance.

@Intro
Ranulf: Flaguerre is close now. It's a fortress city near the Begnion border. We'll storm the city at night and hit them fast enough that the troops inside the fortress won't have time to take their positions.
Skrimir: Yes! Finally, a chance to rend my foes! But I would rather have a head-on fight. Why do we wait until nightfall, like a pack of cowards?
Ranulf: ...
Ike: What's our role in this?
Ranulf: I want the Greil Mercenaries to act as a guerrilla force. Take out their fire mages and ballistae. They're really bad news for us laguz.
Skrimir: Bah, enough talking! To the battlefield, to taste my enemies' fear! No more waiting!
Ranulf: No, Skrimir. This isn't the kind of fight where a general takes the field. You should stay behi--
Skrimir: Are you insane?! Oh, I'll fight! A general of Gallia does not hide behind his men! Leave this "tactics" garbage to the beorc. We need only our claws and teeth! I call an end to this meeting! Time to kill! 
Ranulf: Wait! Skrimir! Blast.
Ike: Are you OK?
Ranulf: Yeah. That thickheaded fool... This'll be his first major battle. Hopefully, he won't get his teeth kicked out. How about you, Ike? Are you sure about this?
Ike: Sure about what?
Ranulf: Well, you know.. You're beorc. I'm laguz. You sure you want to take our side?
Ike: The Laguz Alliance is in the right, Ranulf. The senate is actively ignoring you, and worse, they're murdering your messengers. Why shouldn't we help you get the senate's attention? I'm sure my people understand. Besides, I would never abandon a friend in need.
Ranulf: Thanks, Ike.

Septimus: Oh, this is lunacy! Look how meager our force is, especially considering our proximity to Gallia!
Silvano: General Septimus, sir, we're only making the rounds this evening. We don't need a bigger force.
Septimus: No, you're wrong! Even now, those bloodthirsty beasts are stalking us. I just know it! Believe me!
Silvano: General, p-please calm yourself. You say this every evening, and yet we've never had any--
Begnion: E-enemy fire! We're under attack! It's those Gallian beasts! The sub-humans are attacking us!
Silvano: What?!
Septimus: See? See?! Now do you see, fool?! I was right! Hah, I told you...um... N-now what do we do?

Skrimir: Run down all who get in your way! Make your path of blood and bone! Advance! Advance! Advance!

Ike: Yeesh, glad he's on our side! I see the family resemblance. Keep up, everyone! Let's get to work!

@Battle
Skrimir: Weaklings! Where is your general? Come out and fight, coward! I am Skrimir, general of Gallia!
Septimus: Oh no! They're drawing near! We're finished! We're doomed!
Silvano: P-please be quiet, General! You'll hurt the troops' morale! Wait, where are you going?!
Septimus: To safety! I must escape to Mugill. The beasts... The beasts wish to... CONSUME ME! 
Silvano: General Septimus! Gutless coward! Are you scared of these worthless sub-humans?!

@Boss
Silvano: Wait, there are beorc among them? Why would beorc fight alongside sub-humans?

Silvano: Sub-humans... You dare to fight Begnion? There's no hope for you now. This will be your end. Mark...my words...

@End
Ike: Are we done?
Ranulf: Yeah. The guards are dead, and the rest of the troops fled to the east. We're in good shape.
Skrimir: Bah! Is that it? I still crave blood! Find me more humans to kill!
Ike: The civilians have no quarrel with us, and the soldiers who surrendered have handed over their weapons.
Skrimir: Grrrrr. If this is all the fight Begnion can give, this war will be over too soon!
Ranulf: I wouldn't be so sure. We won this fight, yes, but the empire has a massive army. Don't forget that there was a time when Begnion ruled over us.
Skrimir: Hmph. You forget...that was before my time.
Ranulf: Did you listen to a word I just said?

Skrimir: Soldiers of Gallia! The battle is over! We have won! No human can stand against the laguz! We are not done yet! We'll continue to fight, kill, and crush our enemies!

Soren: My... What a stupid speech.
Titania: Don't say things like that. I hear that King Caineghis of Gallia was not so different when he was young. So try not to judge so quickly.
Ike: I don't know. That's really hard to imagine.
Ranulf: I'm sure that Skrimir will settle down, given time. Well, I hope so, anyway...
Skrimir: Victory awaits us in Mugill! We shall attack, conquer, and celebrate our victory!


Titania: Ike, I've been thinking. Is this war...something that we should really be fighting? After all, we know about Lehran's Medallion...



Soren: "As long as the dark god sleeps within the medallion, the world shall not war." Is that what you mean?
Titania: That's right. Our ancestors made a vow, and it's our responsibility to prevent the horror they strove against.

Titania: "Chaos is born of strife." "If the land is covered in war, the dark god will break free of the medallion and destroy the world." This war could easily spread across Tellius, and the dark god could be awakened. We were very fortunate during the Mad King's War, but it was a close call. Can we count on being lucky again? Already, we're talking about a war between Begnion, the largest nation on Tellius, and three laguz countries. That's half the known world, and it's not over yet. Have they all forgotten about the possibility of the dark god's rebirth?

Ranulf: Hello, all. Sorry to interrupt. Lady Titania, Soren, you're both very perceptive. I'd expect nothing less from the deputy commander and the strategist of the Greil Mercenaries. You don't have to worry, though. The whole situation is under control.



Ranulf: The medallion is under the protection of the Serenes royal family. Even if the god escaped, the herons can control it with their galdrar.
Ike: Reyson, Leanne, and...Prince Rafiel, was it?
Soren: Ah. Ages ago, the heron leader Lehran sealed the dark god within the medallion. His descendants have therefore been taught how to subdue it with their seid magic.

Ranulf: So that's the story. We'll be relying heavily on the power of the Greil Mercenaries. I'm counting on you all.
Titania: Understood. We'll do our best to see this conflict finished as quickly as possible. Right, Ike?
Ike: Yes. Of course.

@Narration
The Laguz Alliance sacks Flaguerre with ease and sets off immediately for Mugill. The fortresses of Felirae and Mugill are both key to the defense of western Begnion and have figured for many years in the military plans of Gallia, Crimea, and Daein.
The fortress of Mugill is well defended by thick walls and countless blades. However, the Laguz Alliance knows that, if they are to win this war, Mugill must fall. Ike and his companions march on, though thoughts of the medallion and the dark god entombed within fill their hearts with dread.

@Conversation 
Ranulf: Sigh...
Ike: Are you all right? You look distracted.
Ranulf: Hmm? Oh, it’s nothing. Don’t worry about me.
Ike: Ranulf, you know you can talk to me.
Ranulf: Sigh. It’s just... I feel bad about this whole thing, you know?
Ike: I’m not sure I understand what you mean.
Ranulf: I’ve pulled you beorc into laguz affairs. It’s not exactly your problem, you know?
Ike: Listen. You offered me a job, and I decided to take the contract. It’s as simple as that. I told the others they could leave if they didn’t want to work with laguz, but everybody decided they’d rather stay. Don’t worry about it, Ranulf.
Ranulf: What about the Black Knight? Are you going to abandon your search?
Ike: Yeah, at least for now. I figure that if he’s still alive, our paths will cross again. There’s no rush.
Ranulf: Hmm... Yeah, I guess you’re right. No point in dwelling on things I can’t change, right? Thanks, Ike.
Ike: Hey, no problem. Anything to keep you from moping around like a sullen kid!
Ranulf: Fair enough. Besides, I’ve had this nagging headache ever since I left Gallia with that hotheaded lion...
Ike: Do you mean General Skrimir?
Ranulf: That’s the one. Skrimir is King Caineghis’s nephew, and is on track to become the next king of Gallia.
Ike: He’s the successor to Caineghis? He must be an absolute terror in battle.
Ranulf: Absolutely. He’s so powerful, I think he’s gonna get himself in trouble. And... He’s the reason for my headache.
Ike: You need a sympathetic ear about that, too?
Ranulf: Thanks, Ike. But I’ll tell you about it some other time. Let’s eat and catch some shut-eye before we set off for battle tonight.
Ike: All right.
Ranulf: See you at dinner.
Ike: Hey, Ranulf!
Ranulf: Yeah?
Ike: You can come talk to me anytime you want. Don’t think you’re alone in all this.
Ranulf: Heh... What are you, an inquisitor?
Ike: A guy’s got to do something between battles. Talk to you later.
Ranulf: ...

Ike: To be honest, I didn’t want you to come along on this mission.
Mist: Really? Well, it’s not like you could have stopped me, even if you wanted to. Ranulf is my friend too, you know!
Ike: Come on, Mist. I--
Mist: Ike! I’m not going to repeat the same mistake I made with Dad! I don’t want you to die while I... while I’m somewhere else. It was horrible... It ate me up from the inside. I’m never going through something like that ever again.
Ike: Mist...
Mist: Everyone in the Greil Mercenaries is part of a family. We all follow the commander, no matter what. We’ll live together, fight together, and die together. Right, Ike?
Ike: ...All right. But promise me this. When we’re out on the battlefield, stay where I can see you. It’ll put my mind at ease.
Mist: I promise, Ike.

Skrimir: Ah! Ike, beorc hero! How are you?
Ike: Pretty good.
Skrimir: Giffca and Ranulf told me about you. You are a skilled warrior, right?
Ike: Well... I don’t think I’m a pushover. I’ll say that much.
Skrimir: Don’t be humble! My uncle... Er, my king also told me about you. "Observe Ike and learn his skills. Then you shall become even stronger."
Ike: King Caineghis said that?
Skrimir: He did. I am eager to watch you in battle. You can learn from me, as well.
Ike: I intend to.
Skrimir: Lions are the strongest of the beast tribe, and I have been trained to fight by the king himself. I was going to fight in the Mad King’s War, but my uncle forbade it. He said I still had much to learn. But now my time has come, and you will see the true might of the beasts!

Titania: ...So, what do you think?
Mordecai: Ahh! These are all the favorite foods of the beast tribe. They will be happy.
Lethe: Oscar, you’re a chef?
Oscar: That’s right.
Lethe: Hah! Great! I can’t wait to see the looks on all their faces when they learn that a beorc made all this delicious food!
Oscar: Aww, stop it. You’re embarrassing me!
Titania: But it’s true! Where did you learn all this, Oscar? You should start teaching classes.
Mordecai: Yes, your food very good! So good, it will be eaten very quickly.
Oscar: Really? Hmm. Do you think I should make more?
Lethe: Us beasts have a healthy appetite, of course. On top of that, we have General Skrimir and Ike. ...Yeah. I’d be surprised if what’s here lasted past those two, much less a whole pack of laguz.
Titania: Tsk, you’re exaggerating! Ike is a beorc. He couldn’t possibly eat as much as someone from the beast tribe. Well, maybe he would. Actually... He most definitely would.
Oscar: Yeah. Especially the ribs and steaks.
Lethe: Mordecai. How about we go hunt for more game?
Mordecai: Right!
Oscar: There probably aren’t enough herbs to flavor everything. I’ll go get more.
Titania: My. We might need to harvest an entire mountain.
/***EOF***/
@Intro
Sothe: Are you sure about this, Micaiah? This makes absolutely no sense.
Micaiah: The Daein Royal Army will answer Begnion's request and attack the Laguz Alliance at the Ribahn River. Those are our orders from King Pelleas. As his subjects, we will obey him.
Sothe: Without even asking why? Daein is finally on its own. Why are we even speaking to Begnion, let alone fighting for them?!
Micaiah: I don't know. I do know that King Pelleas wants what's best for Daein...just like us. He must know something we don't. I trust him. He's changed since the coronation, though. He doesn't smile or laugh anymore. Maybe it's because Izuka and the Black Knight vanished.
Sothe: Who cares about Pelleas smiling or laughing? We have no quarrels with the Laguz Alliance! Why are we targeting them?
Micaiah: Well, with a few exceptions, the soldiers are excited about hunting down the laguz... They've been promised a large bounty for each one they kill. It's certainly raised morale.
Sothe: Listen to yourself! Laguz hunting?! That's just great. We've gone from being freedom fighters to bigots in the blink of an eye. I can't believe you'd go along with such a murderous plan. How do you feel about this, Micaiah? Tell me the truth.
Micaiah: ...I don't want to fight.
Sothe: Then why ar--
Micaiah: What choice do I have?! I'm the general of this army. It doesn't matter how I feel. Besides, I can't let the king or the soldiers down. My duty ultimately lies with them... I'm sorry.
Sothe: Following Pelleas's orders is the same as approving of them.
Micaiah: Sothe, you don't have to do this. I heard that your friend Ike is fighting on the side of the Laguz Alliance. Go, fight with them. Or don't fight at all. But don't let me force you into anything.
Sothe: I'm not leaving your side. I swore I'd protect you, no matter what. I keep my promises. If I can't talk you out of this insanity, I'll fight Commander Ike and his men.
Micaiah: Sothe...
Sothe: But we'd better prepare ourselves. This fight will be harder than any we've had before.
Micaiah: Thank you. I know this isn't easy. But if one side must fall, I will do all I can to make sure it is not Daein. I have no other choice.

Ranulf: We've just begun crossing the river. This fog worries me. I can't see the other side at all.
Skrimir: When we first crossed this river, it was in triumph, thanks to that tiny strategist... Ranulf: C'mon, Skrimir... You're hurting morale.
Skrimir: I was defeated. By a beorc. How can I return to Gallia with this shame? If only I had died, I wouldn't have to suffer this humiliation!
Ranulf: Skrimir, stop. If you had died, Gallia would have lost a brave soldier.
Skrimir: Brave? I am a failure... Please. Leave me alone.
Ranulf: ...

Lyre: Hey, Kyza... Do you smell that?
Kyza: I can't smell anything. What is it?
Lyre: Hm. Maybe it's just my imagination.
Ranulf: Think hard. What kind of smell?
Lyre: Hello, Captain Ranulf! Um, well... Let's see. What IS that smell? Oh, I know! It smells like one of those torches that the beorc use!
Ranulf: What?!
Kyza: Are we being pursued? I don't smell any beorc.
Ranulf: That's because the wind is blowing from the other side. Oh no... I have a bad feeling about this. Call a halt on the river crossing! Kyza, Lyre! Go tell everyone else. I'll make a run for the lead force and let them know! I just hope it's not too late! 
Lyre: No... No! The enemy is here? No way!
Kyza: Lyre, run to the left wing and inform them of the situation.  Lyre!

Micaiah: Not yet. Wait for them to get closer. Everyone, stay quiet...

Sothe: There's the lead force!
Micaiah: Everyone! Take your positions! Attack!

@Battle
Lethe: Blast! We're being ambushed! Grr... Turn back! Brothers, turn back!
Gallia: Never!
Lethe: What did you just say?!
Gallia: We're the beast tribe! I'd rather die than be a coward!
Lethe: ...Fine. No pulling back. We stay here and fight to the last. All forces, attack!


Ranulf: Lethe, you idiot! Why won't you fall back?!
Lethe: The soldiers think that if we retreat any longer, we'd be throwing away our pride.
Ranulf: You're following the lead of some blood-crazed soldiers? You're supposed to be in charge!
Lethe: I know that retreat is the sane course of action, Ranulf. But if we run now, we'd lose the values we hold dearest in our hearts!
Ranulf: ...Fine, Lethe. As long as it's your decision, not someone else's. I'll join the others in the back and watch over Skrimir. We're counting on you!

Lyre: Lethe! Are you out here? Where are you?
Lethe: Lyre! What are you doing here?!
Lyre: Lethe! Oh, Lethe! You're safe! I'm so glad you're all right!
Lethe: Why are you sneaking around?! Get back into position!
Lyre: What?! How dare you! I was just... Oh, forget it! I don't care what happens to you anyway! 
Lethe: I'm sorry, Lyre. It's much too dangerous here. Get back in position. Now.

Black Knight: ...
Micaiah: Sir Knight! You're safe! But where have you been?
Black Knight: My maiden. I shall not ask why you choose to engage in this battle.
Micaiah: For that, you have my thanks.
Black Knight: I am here to protect you. There need be no other reason. Do not leave my side.
Micaiah: I understand. Then I shall not ask you why you have been absent. I want you to know, I'm happy to see you again. I am very glad you're safe.
Black Knight: ...

@Boss
%Zihark,Mordecai
Mordecai: Ah! Zee... Eehark! Hm... Sorry, Mordecai not say your name right. Not yet.
Zihark: What am I doing here? This isn't right. Tell me this is all a bad dream...
Mordecai: Oh, it's good to see... Zee-haark? Why are you sad?
Zihark: Mordecai... I'm so sorry...

%Jill,Mordecai
Mordecai: Ahh! Jill! It's been a long time! What? What's wrong? Why are you sad?
Jill: I'm sorry, Mordecai. I won't take your life, but I must take you out of this battle. Forgive me.
Mordecai: What? Why? Mordecai does not understand this...

%Sothe,Mordecai
Mordecai: Ahh! You! I remember you! Sothe! You're so big now!
Sothe: Mordecai... I have to fight you. Please fight back.
Mordecai: What?! Mordecai does not wish to...

@Boss
Mordecai: Sorry, Lethe... I am hurt... I must go back and rest.

%Zihark,Lethe
Zihark: Lethe?
Lethe: Zihark! So, you also side with the enemy?
Zihark: Lethe, please surrender. Our commander doesn't want any more killing.
Lethe: Surrender? Even you could not convince me to surrender. You know that, Zihark.
Zihark: Lethe, please!
Lethe: Enough! We are enemies. The only thing left for us is this fight!
Zihark: How did it come to this...

%Jill,Lethe
Lethe: How unfortunate. I remember when we first met, as enemies.
Jill: Yes. And then we became allies. And after that, friends. But now...
Lethe: Let us keep emotion out of this. This is war. We will fight.
Jill: My goddess... You can be so cruel...

%Sothe,Lethe
Lethe: You!
Sothe: Wait... Lethe, is that you?
Lethe: Sothe, right? You've grown to become a strong soldier.
Sothe: Please surrender, Lethe. You know the situation is hopeless. Continuing this will only mean that more of your soldiers will die.
Lethe: We will not surrender. This alliance stands for something more important than our lives!
Sothe: What are you talking about? Death is final, Lethe. Nothing matters if you're dead.
Lethe: Silence! We'll never be the slaves of beorc ever again!

@Boss
Lethe: Grr... Their defenses are strong. We can't push through them. But we can't pull back! Retreat is not an option! I'll give my life to uphold the honor of the beast tribe!

@End
Micaiah: This is pointless. The Gallian soldiers just keep coming, no matter how many we take down. If we keep this up, both sides will take horrible casualties.
Lethe: Grr, I can't find an opening! If only I could find one weak point, we could break through!
Ranulf: These guys are really clever. They must have a veteran commander to use a strategy like this.
Lethe: Ranulf! But, what about General Skrimir?! Isn't he supposed to be at the back of the army?
Ranulf: You know how he is. I've got six strong men trying to keep Skrimir from coming out here.
Lethe: All right, then. We'll show these beorc a real fight. We should regroup, and...
Ranulf: Wait. Look, over there.
Micaiah: All troops, lower your weapons! I'm going to propose a cease-fire to the Laguz Alliance.

Ranulf: I've seen that black armor before. You're with the Daein army! Why is Daein attacking us?!
Micaiah: Are you the general of this army? I am Micaiah, a general of the Daein Royal Army.
Lethe: Wait, you're the one in command?!
Micaiah: My king, Pelleas, has decided to answer Begnion's request for help in fighting the Laguz Alliance. You have no chance for victory. Further bloodshed is meaningless. Please surrender while you can.
Lethe: Do not insult us, tiny beorc! We'd rather die than surrender!
Micaiah: Behind you lies the Begnion army. In front of you is the Daein army. You've nowhere to run.
Ranulf: Well, I guess we'll just have to chase you down like cattle and press on. Sound good to you, Skrimir?

Micaiah: What in the goddess's name was that?!
Sothe: Get back, Micaiah! That roar... That must be a lion! Lion laguz are stronger than the cat or tiger laguz we've been fighting.
Ranulf: Hey... Is that you, Sothe? You look so much older now. Beorc grow up so fast... Just like Ike. Remember him, Sothe?
Sothe: What? So Commander Ike really IS fighting with you?!
Ranulf: Let's just say you shouldn't assume that you can see all of our troops. Sothe, if you care for this girl at all, get her and her men out of here. That's my only warning to you.
Micaiah: Wait!
Sothe: Stop, Micaiah. If we chase them, they'll kill us for sure.
Micaiah: ...

Micaiah: General Tauroneo! What brings you out here? Has something happened to the king?
Tauroneo: No, I am here to deliver supplies. ...And to see how the battle fares.
Sothe: You made up a clever excuse and convinced the king to let you come here? I'm impressed. Thanks for coming, General Tauroneo.
Tauroneo: Don't worry about it. I trust that the fight is going well against the Laguz Alliance?
Micaiah: Yes, but the enemy seems to have additional forces deployed in the area. I expect another battle to begin very soon, and I doubt it will be as easy as the last.
Tauroneo: So, we still remain on the brink of battle. I see.
Micaiah: I shall do my best to defeat the Laguz Alliance quickly. When this battle is over, please persuade the king to negotiate a peace treaty as soon as possible. Would you do this for me? Would you please talk to the king and help to stop this pointless war?
Tauroneo: I shall try...

@Narration
The Daein army takes to the field and deals a heavy blow to the army of the Laguz Alliance. This sudden aggression shocks the Alliance like a lightning bolt on a clear day.
With their only avenue of retreat blocked, the forces of the Laguz Alliance begin to despair. As the last shred of hope is fading, Skrimir appears before his troops and rallies them on, bolstering their failing strength. Gallian morale is further improved by the appearance of Tibarn and Ike's forces, who aid the beast army with talon and steel.

@Conversation
Micaiah: I wonder what this is?
Sothe: Let me see. Ah, that’s a master crown. King Pelleas got one especially for you.
Micaiah: How do you use it?
Sothe: He said that a beorc who honed their combat skills could use it to gain further power.
Micaiah: Someone who has refined their skills. I see. So, not everyone can use it.
Sothe: Sounds like it. It’s a very precious item, so choose the recipient with care.
Micaiah: All right.

Micaiah: Here you go, Jill. This weapon is for you.
Jill: ...Thank you. Um... Lady Micaiah, I have to ask. What is the purpose of this war?
Micaiah: King Pelleas has decided to come to the aid of Begnion.
Jill: Has he deigned to share his reasoning with you? Micaiah, this war is madness! Why would he ask us to aid Begnion!?
Micaiah: ...I don’t know.
Jill: Wonderful.
Micaiah: I believe in our king. That’s all I can say.
Jill: At least someone does.

Micaiah: Edward, I have something for you...
Edward: Really? What is it?
Micaiah: It’s a gift from King Pelleas. One of Daein’s national treasures, the blade Caladbolg.
Edward: What? Whoa, this thing is amazing! I’ve never seen a blade so sharp! Is it really for me? That means the king’s counting on me, right? Well, Caladbolg and I won’t let him down!
Micaiah: Um... Listen, Edward, this war... Daein really shouldn’t be...
Edward: Huh? Shouldn’t be what?
Micaiah: Oh, never mind. It’s nothing. Forget I said anything.
Edward: OK, sure. Um, Micaiah? Look, I don’t know anything about kings, or nobles, or anything else like that. But you’re fighting because you believe it’s what’s best for Daein, right? And, well, that’s good enough for me. I’m with you, no matter what.
Micaiah: Oh, Edward...
Edward: Now, I want to use this sword! They’re going to write song about me after this, I just know it!

Micaiah: Leonardo, King Pelleas asked me to present you with this bow. This is Lughnasadh. It’s been stored away in the vaults of Daein, waiting for someone worthy enough. It’s more powerful than the purest silver bow.
Leonardo: It’s beautiful... Honestly, this bow is beyond my skill. It was crafted for better hands than mine. I guess... I guess we really have to win now, don’t we?
Micaiah: Yes, I suppose we do.
Leonardo: Don’t look so sad, Micaiah. You’re not responsible for this war. We’re doing the best we can hope to do. But I’m fighting for Daein. The circumstances may change, but my feelings never will.

Micaiah: Hello, Nolan. A gift from King Pelleas has arrived for you.
Nolan: You’re kidding me... it can’t be! That’s Tarvos, isn’t it? That’s one wicked-looking axe. I’d heard stories about the fabled axe of Daein, but to actually feel the heft... King Pelleas wants me to have it? I always did like that man. I’ll take good care of it, don’t you worry.
Micaiah: I know you will, Nolan. King Pelleas does too. That’s why he’s chosen to give it to you.
Nolan: Micaiah, look... I know how hard it is to be a commander, especially with all of this confusion and doubt flying around. Fighting a war you don’t believe in is a bitter pill to swallow.
Micaiah: Nolan, I--
Nolan: Just remember something, will you? We’re still the Dawn Brigade. Lots of us aren’t your "comrades," we’re your family. If you need anything, we’re with you, no matter what. Nothing’s going to change that.
Micaiah: Oh, Nolan... Thank you so much.
/***EOF***/
@Intro
Nolan: Just a quick half-mark, and we'll be in Kisca. I'd like to stock up there, but...
Sothe: Begnion will be on the lookout for us. Let's steer clear of towns for now, unless we want more trouble.
Edward: Don't tell me... This means another night sleeping on the cold ground with nothing but bugs to keep us warm!
Micaiah: Oh, Edward, it's not that bad!  The forest is so beautiful and serene. I'd almost rather be out here. Right, Yune?
???:  Um...excuse me. Are you people heading to town by any chance? Our abbot is ill. He needs medicine, but Begnion soldiers are hoarding our provisions in the manor house.
Micaiah: The Dawn Brigade, at your service! I'm sure we can help you and your abbot.

Micaiah: Sothe, do you know the layout of the manor?
Sothe: I was here years ago. As I remember, there's a large armory tucked deep inside the building. And if I understand correctly, Begnion soldiers guard valuables they've stolen-—from rare objects to necessary supplies—-in that armory.
Micaiah: Then the medicine will be there, too.
Laura: Are you sure you don't mind?
Micaiah: Of course not! Danger is part of our work. Leave everything to us!
Sothe: Your abbot will have his medicine.
Laura: Oh, thank you so much! Good luck!

@Battle
Zaitan: Intruders, you say?! What with a full battalion stationed here? The gall! And the intrigue! Now, listen up, my men, catch 'em midstream and filet 'em like fish!

Sothe:  That takes care of the locks. Now, I just have to figure out how to get everybody safely up here. 

Begnion: Hey, you! How did you get in here?!
Sothe: We are the Dawn Brigade. We go where we please. We're here to reclaim what you've stolen from the people of Daein.

Begnion: Sir! There are burglars on the loose! Several young men and women have broken into the manor house!
Jarod: Did you say women? What... What color is their hair?
Begnion: There are two girls. One has bizarre silver-colored hair, and the other—-
Jarod: The Silver-Haired Maiden! Hm, very well. I want all soldiers on hand. Capture the girl...alive. Do what you will with the others, but bring me that girl! Understand!?
Begnion: Sir, yes sir!

@Boss
Zaitan: Don't move a finger, thief, or I'll skewer you with my lance and serve you for lunch!

Zaitan: With this many, we...can't...hold them back... Call...for...rein...force...ments...

%Micaiah,Zaitan
Zaitan: The Silver-Haired Maiden! I've got you! Lucky for you, Jarod wants you alive—-but there's no escaping now!
Micaiah: I'm afraid I have to disappoint you.
Zaitan: Oh, how pompous! Try to "disappoint" me, and I'll break both your arms!

@End
Laura: At last... Glory be! The abbot will have his medicine. Wait for me here. I'll return soon.

Sothe: Well done, everybody! Are we all present and accounted for?
Micaiah: Wait! Laura's missing! She was just with me.
Sothe: Let's split up and search for her. Micaiah, you come with me.
Micaiah: ...Hm, the forest is huge. We can cover more ground if we search individually.
Sothe: But...
Micaiah: Let's rendezvous at Kunu Swamp in three marks' time.


Micaiah: Somebody's near by...
???: You sensed me, did you?

Micaiah: Where is Laura?
Jarod: And you saw through my ruse. You're as clever as they say, my dear. You even came alone. How brave of you. Was that to give your friends a chance to escape? What a thoughtful little thing you are.
Laura: Mi-Micaiah! Don't come any closer!
Micaiah: Laura! Let her go! She isn't one of us...
Jarod: Now, you know I can't do that. She's a valuable hostage, just like you!
Micaiah: No! Yune, fly away!
Jarod: Argh, dratted bird! Yes, get that mangy flying bag of bones out of here before I squash it like a fly! Tch. How annoying. Enough of this! Back to the castle. As long as we have these two, the others don't matter.
Alder: Sir. All hands, withdraw!
Micaiah: I've got a bad feeling about this...

/***EOF***/
@Intro
Mist: This is great! I can't remember the last time we got to sleep indoors! We can be thankful for the rain, I guess.
Ike: Yeah, the decorations are a little...overdone, but the beds will be warm and dry. I'm glad I remembered this mansion was here.
Soren: Presumably we're the first people to set foot in here since Oliver was posthumously found guilty of trading in heron slaves. I understand the senate confiscated his lands and property immediately after the Mad King's War ended.
Titania: Well, someone must be living here; the place is spotless. By law, there shouldn't be anyone here. I wonder if someone is squatting.

Rafiel: ...
Nailah: Is something wrong, Rafiel?
Rafiel: I feel that we are being watched. I sense no malice...but there is definitely some sort of presence. Perhaps the master of the house?
Nailah: Hmm. I'll be we find out soon.

Nailah: The Disciples of Order are here! They just appeared in the outer building.
Ike: All right, let's get everyone mobilized.
Rafiel: General! Come quickly! Our friends are in trouble!
Ike: Friends?

Ike: Hey! Isn't that--
Mist: It's Tormod! We haven't seen him since the Mad King's War!
Order: Extinguish them!
Tormod: Funny you should phrase it that way, you soon-to-be cinder!

Tormod: What the—That should have worked better. Who are these guys?
Ike: Tormod, your backup's here! Just hold your position!
Tormod: Much appreciated! Don't worry. We're not going anywhere! Wait a second...Ike? What happened to you, musclehead?
Muarim: It's definitely Sir Ike. But beorc growth always amazes me. It's like looking at a different person.
Tormod: Between him and Sothe, I'm starting to feel a little inadequate! Well, that settles it! I've still got a lot of growing to do, so I've got to survive! I can't die like this!
Ike: All right, let's help these guys out. Get ready for battle!

@Battle
Hetzel: Oliver, Duke of Tanas, have a care. The last time you faced these enemies, you were defeated, humiliated, and your heron slave trade was exposed. By the good graces of your fellow senators, you were saved from death and hidden away here. Behind the backs of the apostle and the prime minister, we have kept you safe. Do not fail us.
Oliver: I understand, Senator Hetzel. Rest assured, the savages who dare set foot in my home a second time will be eradicated for the glory of the goddess! Ugly creatures deserve nothing but an ugly death. You will not regret the lovely mercy you've shown me!

@Battle-Talk 
%Ike,Tormod
Ike: Tormod, it's been a while.
Tormod: Holy moly! You are absolutely huge! I feel puny next to you...
Ike: That's because you are puny. Magic clearly doesn't give you much muscle tone.
Tormod: Oh...I suppose that's true. Still, it works pretty well for winning battles. 
Ike: Actually, Tormod...
Tormod: What?
Ike: Did you actually get smaller?
Tormod: Nah, you just can't see me properly because all of your blood gets pumped to your muscles, away from your brain!  Ike: A little touchy, Tormod? ...Whatever. We have work to do.

%Ike,Muarim
Ike: Muarim, we've got your back here. Are you ready for these guys?
Muarim: Absolutely, Sir Ike. I'm glad to have the chance to fight with you again.
Ike: The pleasure's mine, Muarim. You're a good man.
Muarim: Thank you.

@Recruit-Battle
Oliver: I have seen death's vistas and returned an even wiser, more exquisite man! Take it in! Bask in the beauty!

@Recruit-Talk 
%Rafiel,Oliver
Oliver: Ohhh...you are truly a banquet for the eyes as well as the...spirit. I am quite overcome!
Rafiel: Unhand me!
Oliver: But how is it that anyone could risk a precious treasure like you in battle? What if something marred you?
Rafiel: What are you talking about?
Oliver: Don't worry, pretty bird; I'll save you. You need someone who can give you loving protection. Someone...like me.
Rafiel: ???
Oliver: I'll take you away from these savages! I would never let them lay a single finger on you, my precious! No, no... The jealous cretins mustn't ruffle a single feather... I'll have to kill them. Come now, come to daddy!

%Ike,Oliver
Ike: Hold on a second... Aren't these your men? Why are you fighting them?
Oliver: It's quite simple, really. A true guardian of beauty stands with those who are beautiful. If your exquisite heron prince will not stay here in my home, I must follow him. I have seen death; it holds no mystery for me. Only my pursuit matters. Rest at ease, friends.
Ike: Look... Would you mind rejoining the enemy?

@Recruit-Battle
Oliver: Aagh... Still so many beautiful things...that...I...don't own.

%Vika,Oliver
Oliver: Ho ho, what have we here? A fine little raven indeed! Please... Let me see the length of those wings. I'll need to know, if I'm to take proper...care of them.
Vika: You Begnion nobles... Can't you ever just say what you're thinking?

%Muarim,Oliver
Oliver: Sub...sub...sub-human! Tiger! Tiger! Eyes burning bright! In my foyer late at night! Oh, my poetic soul! I'm much too delicate for this!
Muarim: Oh boy...

%Tormod,Oliver
Tormod: Hey, chunky! Apparently we didn't kill you enough last time! Time to try again!
Oliver: Yawp! Dear me! What a frightening young child.
Tormod: I am NOT a child!

%Volug,Oliver
Volug: Grrrrr!
Oliver: Ack! A sub-human! What a horrible monster, smacking his lips before dining on my delicate body! Someone, please help me! A man like me doesn't deserve this!

%Nailah,Oliver
Oliver: S-sub-human! A hideous sub-human is attacking me! Help! Someone help me! I'm much too lovely for this!
Nailah: What a strangely shaped creature... Is this some rare subspecies of beorc?

%Ike,Oliver
Ike: You! You're still alive?!
Oliver: The world simply could not bear to be without me. Your crude weapons have no force against true magnificence! Blessed with such beauty, I have no foes...only inferiors!
Ike: Glad to see you're still barely clinging to that last shred of sanity. Just give it up, already.

@End
Ike: Well, another storm weathered. It's late. Everyone try to get some sleep and be ready for tomorrow.

Hetzel: Wiped out... Not a man left standing. It must be the will of the goddess.
Rafiel: You! You are...
Hetzel: Rafiel? How-- You're still alive! I'm so glad you're safe...

Rafiel: I have nothing to say to you.
Hetzel: So, you know, then. What we did was unforgivable... I was against it from the beginning... I argued with the others time and again! ...Ah, what's the use... It doesn't matter what I say now. Rafiel... Despite everything, I'm very happy to see that you're alive. But I beg of you... Stay away from the capital. You must not anger the goddess!

Ike: I've seen that man before. He's a pretty influential senator, isn't he?
Rafiel: His name is Hetzel, duke of Asmin... I owe my life to him.

Nailah: Ike, I'm sorry, but can we talk later? Rafiel needs to rest.
Ike: Yes, of course.

Ike: So... Why are you guys here, anyway?
Tormod: You won't believe me, but it came to me in a dream, Ike.
Ike: A dream?
Tormod: Yeah. Shortly after that light turned everyone to stone, I had a really strange dream. I don't remember it very well, but it was like there was a voice in my head, whispering encouragement. When I woke up, I knew what I had to do. I knew that everyone who hadn't been petrified was heading to the Tower of Guidance, and from there we'd all be saved.
Muarim: I had the same dream. I thought this must be a divine revelation, so we left the desert to make for the tower.
Ike: Sounds like more of Yune's handiwork.
Nailah: Agreed. This is her way of gathering able bodies. I suppose a goddess of chaos will do things her own way...
Tormod: Yune? Isn't that the dark goddess I keep hearing about? Should I even be listening to her?
Ike: I can't really put it into words, but I can feel it inside. Listening to her is the right thing to do. I guess it's a lot like the dream you described.
Nailah: We laguz are pretty intuitive. I feel it in my blood that Yune is the goddess of our ancestors.
Tormod: All right. That makes it a little easier to come to grips with.

Ike: Are you feeling any better?
Rafiel: Yes, much. Sorry if I worried you. That was quite a shock.
Ike: No problem... Can we talk about it? I'd like to know about you and that man...
Rafiel: Yes, Hetzel... It was some time ago now, a little while before the Serenes Massacre...


Rafiel: I was alone outside of the forest. There, I was found and captured by beorc slave traders. The slavers sold me at auction, and the winner was Lord Hetzel. I didn't know until later, but the bidding for me among the senators was extremely competitive. Lord Hetzel actually spent much of his fortune on my purchase.

Rafiel: After he took me home, I fell deathly ill, mostly just from desperation. Lord Hetzel was deeply moved by my plight... He brought me to a temple and spent many days nursing me back to health. I have no doubt that he saved my life, but my wings never fully recovered. I haven't been able to fly since. Lord Hetzel felt terrible... Do you know what he told me? He said, "Once you fully recover, you can return to the forest." Members of the heron clan, we can look inside people's hearts. I knew the truth of what Lord Hetzel said... He was being absolutely honest. I knew I could trust him from that moment on.



Rafiel: Then... The Serenes Massacre. I didn't need to be told. I would have felt the suffering of that many of my brethren from anywhere in the world. Lord Hetzel never said anything, but I knew that the senators had murdered the apostle and blamed my clan. Because of the monstrous ambition of a handful of evil men, my entire race was burned to ash.
Ike: Rafiel...
Rafiel: Late that night, I returned to the temple. Something happened to me there... Some sort of force took hold of me... The next thing I knew... I was lying in the sand. If Queen Nailah hadn't come, I would have died right there. I didn't even realize how far I was from my dear home.

Ike: So Duke Hetzel is both your savior and your enemy.
Rafiel: Hetzel was not directly involved, nor did he give orders to those who were. Something about him still troubles me, though... Whenever I think of him, I feel chaos boiling up from his heart. ...I sense it in myself, as well. I have the same feelings welling up in me. I suppose that's why I can accept it in him.
Ike: Your people, the remaining heron tribe... They've also changed. King Tibarn has said many times that Reyson and Leanne are far from typical herons.
Rafiel: Yes, I was surprised when we met again. They're both so strong...and vitality seems to shine forth from within them.
Ike: It makes you wonder if chaos is really all bad, doesn't it?
Rafiel: I am starting to think that what the world needs is a balance between order and chaos. What do you think?
Ike: I don't know. I think there are some things we're not meant to understand.


@Narration
Tibarn's group passes quickly through Salmo, drawing steadily closer to the imperial capital. The hardships of the journey lead the group to overcome their racial differences, and form bonds of friendship and trust.
However, Almedha, the queen mother of Daein, remains alone and aloof, lost in thoughts of her own. Her son, Pelleas, also seems to guard some secret thought, tucked deep within his heart.

@Conversation 
Volug: ...
Ike: Er. Hello. What can I do for you?
Volug: ...
Ike: Hey, that’s an elixir.
Volug: ...
Ike: Yes, I like them too.
Volug: ...
Nailah: (Volug, speak out loud. Ike is confused by your silence.)
Volug: (But, Your Majesty... He doesn’t understand our language.)
Nailah: (It’s better than staying silent.) Sorry. I don’t mean to leave you out of the conversation.
Ike: No, that’s fine. I would have been confused either way. I didn’t know you could speak the ancient language.
Nailah: It’s Hatari’s common language. I would never have known about the Tellius language if I hadn’t met Rafiel.
Ike: The Tellius language?
Nailah: You don’t know? The language we are using right now is called the Tellius language. You call it modern speech, I suppose.
Ike: Oh, I see.
Nailah: Long ago, beorc created the Old Tongue. The ancient speech is what we laguz call it. The language was too difficult for the laguz to master. So the language of Tellius was created in its place.
Ike: Huh. I’ve never heard that before. The only people I’m aware of who know the ancient speech are the heron laguz. I think Nasir of Goldoa said he could read it. Among beorc, only mages know how to use it, and that’s only for spells.
Nailah: Well, the laguz who live a long time, such as dragons and herons, have all the time in the world to learn it. Beorc probably left the ancient speech behind in favor of a newer and improved language, with the exception of spells.
Ike: That makes sense, I suppose. Mordecai once told me that speech lets you avoid fighting when it’s not a good idea. He said that’s why it’s a good idea to know many languages.
Nailah: Did he, now? Volug, did you hear that? You can learn the language of Tellius with Mordecai.
Volug: ...I will... I...will try.
Nailah: He understands what you’re saying, for the most part. It’s the speaking that’s the hard part for him.
Ike: You don’t need to feel obligated. I mean, it isn’t like I can understand ancient speech.
Volug: (Here, I want you to have this.) Um, here... Take.
Ike: Oh, I understand. Thanks.
Volug: (It’s about time!)
Ike: I think I understood that. You were happy that I understood what you just said.
Volug: (I guess you could say that.)
Nailah: Good. As long as you have the desire to learn, words will soon follow.
Ike: I see. I’ll try to learn a little ancient speech from now on, too. Volug, you be my teacher and I’ll be your teacher.
Volug: (All right. It’s a deal.)
/***EOF***/
@Intro
Ike: How are we doing for time, Janaff?
Janaff: They're gaining on us. Their lead force is about...let's say...one day off.
Ranulf: You've got to be kidding! How did they cover so much ground since yesterday?!
Ike: They're definitely moving faster than we expected. At this rate, they'll catch us soon. Any ideas?
Soren: ...With the enemy closing in so quickly, it would be unwise to use this secret passage. If Begnion found it, it would give them an open invitation to surge across Gallia. Your kind would not be pleased.
Ranulf: We can't expose our country to that danger. We have to think of something else.
Ike: Well, we can't start a fight in the Serenes Forest. Besides the terrain disadvantage, the forest isn't fully healed, and we can't risk burning it down again. Soren, any ideas?
Soren: Our options are profoundly limited, Ike. It appears our only other choice is those caves up ahead.
Ranulf: Caves? Oh...yeah, those are the Kauku Caves. We don't want to go there. It's a complex maze, full of lava and ash. Not exactly a place you'd want to rest. The legends say that, through the caves, there's one exit that leads to Gallia, and another exit that leads to Goldoa. Whatever the legends say, though, the fact is that it's suicide to go in there. We don't even have a map!
Ulki: However, the more you hens carry on, the closer the enemy advances on us. They're now less than a day away.
Soren: If the enemy catches up to us in this forest, we will certainly die. The caves are known to be dangerous, so Begnion may not pursue. Even the most formidable natural hazard isn't as deadly as an intelligent, living enemy. We must go to the caves. Now.
Ike: All right, Soren. I trust you. Let's move out for the caves.

Zelgius: Are you sure? We have visual confirmation of the Laguz Alliance heading into the Kauku Caves?
Levail: Yes, sir. The enemy must be desperate. Why else would they enter that forsaken death trap?
Zelgius: We cannot go there without preparation. It would be suicide. Let's not follow them to their deaths. ...That ends our pursuit, then. Tell the men that this mission is over.
???: I cannot allow you to do that, my dear General.
Levail: You're--!

Zelgius: Senator Valtome.
Valtome: Uwee hee hee. You're not even a tiny bit surprised, Lord Zelgius of Cador? What a frightful bore you are. I came here in secret just to surprise you.
Zelgius: Oh, I am surprised indeed. What would bring a senator of your station to a place like this? Do you bring new orders?
Valtome: Uwee hee hee. Oh, yes. I am here to deliver a decision handed down by the senate. In its wisdom, the senate has appointed me commander in chief of the Imperial Army. From this moment on, this army is mine.
Zelgius: ...I see. Then I am at your command. Your orders, Commander?
Valtome: Uwee hee hee. Oh, you are ever so serious! You haven't changed one bit, Zelgius. One of these days, I will catch you off guard. Well, I suppose that impassive face of yours is just part of your charm.
Zelgius: ...Senator Valtome. Your orders.
Valtome: Oh, yes, orders. Hmm, well, this battle is taking far too long for my taste. We will pull back and conquer Gallia by taking a different path.
Zelgius: I see. Then I shall inform my men.
Valtome: The northern force will stay here. Tell them to go inside the caves and search for bodies of dead sub-humans or something.
Zelgius: What?! Sending them into those caves is the same as sending them to the gallows. I implore you to reconsider, Commander.
Valtome: I gave my order, did I not? Get those men in those caves right this minute! And, Zelgius? Never question my orders again, or I'll have you killed. Is that clear? Besides, you should be happy. You're coming with me to finally wipe out those beasts. Come along now. 
Zelgius: ...


Septimus: Why... Why do I always get stuck with these awful missions? I should have curried favor with General Zelgius! Then perhaps I wouldn't have had to step into these ghastly caves...

Janaff: Hey, Ike! We have company.
Ike: Seems that way. What kind of numbers are we looking at? I can't see through all this smoke and heat.
Ranulf: It's just like Soren said: a token force.
Janaff: As far as I can tell, Zelgius isn't leading them. That helps things.
Ike: We have to keep the enemy away from Skrimir? And the others while they look for an exit. Let's proceed as planned. We have enough people here to deal with these clowns. Everyone ready?
Ranulf: We're set. Let's finish this and get out of here!

@Boss
Septimus: They told me that the enemy would be burnt by the time I reached them. The only thing I'd have to do was carry their dead bodies back as proof... It's just my luck that the enemy is alive and well! Why does this always happen to me?

Septimus: AHHH! Th-they're here! Th-th-the sub-humans! The mongrels are here! They want to consume me!

Septimus: I-I knew it... I knew I would end up like this...

%Ike,Septimus
Septimus: Wh-who are you?!
Ike: Ike of the Greil Mercenaries. You don't look too good. Maybe you should just leave...
Septimus: Wait a moment... HAH! Look, everyone! Look at this one! He's not a beast! Oh, thank the goddess! Victory is nigh!
Ike: So... Chasing us into these caves wasn't the plum assignment that all the best generals wanted, huh?
Septimus: How DARE you! Take my spear, knave!

@End
Skrimir: Ike, Ranulf! This way! I found a way out.
Ranulf: Excellent! Let's get out of here!
Ike: You don't have to tell me twice.

Skrimir: Yes! We did it! We made it through the caves!
Ike: Looks like we finally lost the Begnion army, as well. We can finally rest a bit.
Skrimir: I thought we were finished... I thought my rashness had killed us. But we've lived to see our land again!
Tibarn: Hey, Skrimir. Has all the heat gone to that shaggy head of yours? Look around. Is this Gallia?
Skrimir: ...What?! No! We can't be in--
Goldoa: You! By whose authority have you entered this land?!
Ranulf: Goldoa, the land of the dragons... By the goddess, did we mess up.
Skrimir: The dragons... It is said they are the most powerful of all the laguz tribes. I've always wanted to fight a dragon, but I never expected it would happen like this... When our king finds out about this, I will have much explaining to do.
Tibarn: You've got to get home first, Skrimir. I guess we have to pay that stubborn old lizard a visit, don't we?
Reyson: Let's go.

Tibarn: ...And there you have it. We never intended to violate Goldoa's borders. It was an accident.
Dheginsea: I see... I understand your predicament. However, your reasons neither justify nor change the fact that you trespassed on our territory. I order you to leave immediately. Go back the way you came, through the caves.
Skrimir: You would have us go through Kauku Caves again?! Never!
Ranulf: Stop talking, Skrimir!
Skrimir: Many of my men are wounded! You're sending them to their deaths! I will not allow this!
Dheginsea: It is regrettable, yes. However, I cannot make exceptions. Your men will leave. Now.
Skrimir: How could a laguz be so cold to his brothers? We are your people as well!
Tibarn: This isn't news, Skrimir. Goldoa and its lizards have ignored the suffering of their laguz brothers for centuries. They even looked the other way while we birds and beasts were enslaved by beorc! Isn't that so, Dragon King?
Dheginsea: ...Our country is neutral. It has been since time out of mind and will continue to be so.
Ike: Then you might as well just kill us now. It'd be the same as sending us back to the Kauku Caves, and it saves us the walk.
Dheginsea: You are a beorc. I would not expect your short-lived kind to understand.
Ike: I don't need to understand to see that it's a poor king who has so little regard for his fellow living creatures!
Dheginsea: Hmm...

Ena: ...Your Majesty! Please hear our plea!
Dheginsea: What are you two doing here?
Ena: Please allow my grandfather and me to guide the Laguz Alliance to the borders of Gallia. I beg of you.
Nasir: Prince Reyson of the heron tribe stands among these men. The dragon tribe owes him safe passage. Please, Your Majesty! He saved the soul of your son! Would you condemn them to die, despite the good they've done?
Dheginsea: ...Hmph. Do as you like. This is the only exception I will ever make. 
Ena: Thank you, Your Majesty.

Nasir: Well, here you are. I think you know the way from here.
Ranulf: Thanks, Nasir. You really saved us back there.
Nasir: It's the least we could do. I will pray for your safety.

Ike: Hey, wait up, you two!  We haven't seen you in a long time. Don't you have some time to stay and talk with us for a little while?
Ena: A long time? What do you mean? We just saw you three years ago!
Ike: Oh, that's right... Three years isn't all that long for you dragons, is it?
Ena: Oh, I'm sorry. I suppose three years would feel slightly longer for beorc.
Nasir: Ike. I would love to stay and talk, but now is not the proper time. In truth, we are not even allowed to speak with you at all. Now, please go.
Ike: Why? Why do you isolate yourselves from everyone?
Nasir: ...I don't expect you to understand. But I want you to know that we obey our king's decision of our own free will. That's all I can say.
Ike: Nasir...
Nasir: You should go. Many of your wounded need immediate attention. Head back to Gallia at once, and tell the lion king what happened.
Ike: All right... I don't get it, but I'll go now. We'll see each other again?
Nasir: I certainly hope so. You are one of our dearest friends.
Ena: Take care, and be safe.

@Narration
Goldoa, the land of dragons, lies secluded in the southwestern corner of Tellius. No foreigner, laguz, or beorc, is permitted within its borders.
The alliance emerges from the lava tubes and into Goldoa by accident. The dragon king, Dheginsea, is displeased by this trespass. However, Ike's former companions Nasir and Ena appeal to Dheginsea to allow the passage of the Laguz Alliance. Reyson's actions during the last war earn them the grudging respect of King Dheginsea, who allows them safe passage.
Meanwhile, Begnion calls off its pursuit of the alliance and finds its passage into Gallia blocked by the nation's great mountains and deep forests. The Central Army's momentum breaks upon these obstacles like an ocean wave against solid rock. Senator Valtome arrives to take command of the Central Army. He orders Zelgius to march on to Gallia by way of Crimea. Observing diplomatic protocol, Valtome petitions the queen for passage as well as supplies and additional troops.
Queen Elincia, however, goes against the wishes of the Crimean nobles and resolutely denies each of Valtome's requests. Her reply enrages Valtome, who sees Crimea as little more than a vassal of the empire. Ignoring Zelgius's counsel, Valtome orders his army to enter Crimea and take whatever they need from the villages along the way.

@Conversation 
Skrimir: How are the injured holding up?
Ranulf: They’re exhausted. Some are so bad off they can’t even get up the energy to transform. The unwounded soldiers have been taking turns carrying the injured.
Skrimir: That’s a good idea. Maybe I’ll carry one or two on my back once we enter the caves.
Ranulf: Hey, you’re hurt, too. Be careful you don’t strain yourself and cause permanent injury, all right?
Skrimir: Hurt? Do I look like I’ve been wounded?
Ranulf: Skrimir, you’re standing in a pool of your own blood. Tell me the truth. It hurts to even stand, right?
Skrimir: ...A little. Do the others know?
Ranulf: No. None of our soldiers do. But I’m sure King Tibarn and Ike both know.
Skrimir: Good. Our soldiers shouldn’t know. I have to be their role model! They’ll see that I’ve been wounded yet continue to fight. Maybe that will help them carry on.
Ranulf: Skrimir...

Lethe: Lyre, come on. You have to stop sulking.
Lyre: Don’t talk to me! I hate you, Lethe!
Lethe: That’s too bad, because I like you.
Lyre: Liar.
Lethe: I’m only hard on you because I worry about you, and I want you to stay safe. Why did you even become a soldier? You used to hate fighting.
Lyre: Hmph.
Lethe: Was it because of Ranulf?
Lyre: That was one reason, I guess.
Lethe: There were other reasons?
Lyre: Yeah. I wanted to stay with you.
Lethe: ...Does that mean you’ll start talking to me again?
Lyre: Yeah. Even though you drive me crazy, you’re still my sister!
Lethe: I’m glad.
Lyre: Here. Take this as a token of apology.
Lethe: What is it?
Lyre: It’s a Daunt scroll. I thought it’d be perfect for someone as scary as you!
Lethe: What!? Say that again, I dare you!
Lyre: Aaahh! Lethe’s mad at me again! Stop being mean to me!
Lethe: I’m the mean one!?
/***EOF***/
@Intro
Ike: Amazing. We've been traveling for miles now, and there hasn't been a single moving person.
Nailah: And yet the other plants and animals seem completely unaffected. The only creatures turned to stone were laguz and beorc... A miracle of the goddess, indeed.
Rafiel: My sister just sent a warning about some "Disciples of Order." Ashera has freed them from stone to fight for her. She's also blessed their weapons and armor. They'll only get stronger as we approach the tower. They nearly beat Leanne's team.
Soren: Worse, they can attack at any moment and we'd have no idea who or where they are. I'll start working on contingency plans.
Ike: All right, we'll break here. Everyone, be sure to keep your weapons and supplies in reach tonight.

Ike: Ena, how is Prince Kurthnaga feeling?
Ena: Not good. He keeps staring into space, he won't say anything, and he hasn't touched a bite of his food.
Ike: I'm sorry to hear that. I wanted to ask him some questions, but it can wait.
Soren: Ike, we're under attack! They've already surrounded us!
Ike: What?! That's impossible!
Ena: How could they get this close without us seeing them?
Nailah: I don't know. There was no sign or scent of their approach... I wonder if they simply materialized?
Ike: Ena, stay here! Protect Kurthnaga's tent at all costs!
Ena: Understood.
Ike: Everyone, watch the perimeter! There are a lot of them, but just focus on one enemy at a time!

@Battle-Talk 
%Ike,Ena 
Ike: Ena, they're getting close! Be ready to fight!
Ena: It's OK, Ike. I'm ready.
Ena: I am ready... Aren't I?

@Boss
Catalena: Unclean souls, your executioner awaits! Repent, before your vile sins pour out of your black hearts and consume you!

Catalena: Death? But my work is not yet...complete...

%Ike,Catalena
Catalena: Pawns of your excretable goddess, die! You are a festering wound in the flesh of the world! Die, and let it heal!
Ike: I suppose talking it over is out of the question?

@End
Ike: That looks like all of them. Fanatics that appear out of nowhere and attack from darkness... This'll be tough.

Ike: Ena, are you all right? Why didn't you transform?
Ena: I didn't want Prince Kurthnaga to be frightened, so I tried to hold them off in this shape. He hates blood...
Ike: This can't go on. I'm going to talk to him.

Ike: Hey, Prince Kurthnaga!
Kurthnaga: ...Eyuhhh...ugh... Stay away!
Ike: What's wrong? Don't you remember me?
Kurthnaga: ...Aughhh...that smell... The blood...on your sword...
Ike: What, this? No problem. I'll go drop it over there.

Ike: Hey, look... No sword. Are you OK now?

Kurthnaga: Y-yes.
Ike: Good. I wanted to talk to you a little. Do you remember who I am?
Kurthnaga: ...Yes. We met once... Three years ago in Goldoa.
Ike: That's right. You do remember. You helped us when our ship ran aground... And you gave us food and water.
Kurthnaga: Yes... You were the first beorc I had ever met.

Ike: I'm glad our paths have crossed again. We didn't have much time to talk back then... I didn't even get to introduce myself. I'm Ike, of the Greil Mercenaries. Thanks to you, we completed our voyage safely. I've been wanting to thank you for three years. So... Thank you. Kurthnaga: No, it was nothing at all. Actually, it was quite an experience... I had only read of beorc in books, so meeting one was a rare privilege. I wasn't really myself, so I hope I didn't say or do anything rude. It's embarrassing when I think about it now. I'm sorry.
Ike: No, if anything, I was the rude one. I was just an ignorant hothead with no manners or gratitude at all. But you just laughed and forgave me. I'm really grateful for that.
Kurthnaga: I'm glad that I could be of some help. It seems like it's been a while since I've had that chance.

Ike: Prince Kurthnaga... There's something I have to ask you. Before Yune's awakening, why did you side with the Daein army to fight against us and the apostle's army? The dragon tribes are neutral, and known for their hatred of blood and war. As their prince, I can't see why you would do it.
Kurthnaga: I suppose I owe you an explanation for that. First of all, the dragon tribes had nothing to do with any of this. I... I disobeyed my father, and the laws of Goldoa. I joined the battle against all my training, of my own free will. Ena just saw me leaving, or I wouldn't have brought her into this. I just wanted... I just wanted to help my sister.
Ike: Sister? You have a sister in Daein?
Kurthnaga: Yes... A sister and a brother, actually.



Kurthnaga: My sister's name is Almedha. She was the wife of the late King Ashnard.
Ike: Mad King Ashnard was married to a princess of Goldoa?
Kurthnaga: Yes. And my brother... My brother's name was Rajaion.
Ike: Rajaion? Wasn't he the dragon that was warped and used by the Mad King? Wasn't Ena supposed to marry him?
Kurthnaga: Yes. That savage Ashnard held his own baby hostage...the baby born of my sister, Almedha. Then he took my brother, Rajaion...and warped him in order to use him as a mount like a common wyvern.
Ike: I'm sorry. I didn't know...
Kurthnaga: ...Ike, you were there at my brother's last hour. I'm sorry to ask you, but when my brother died... Did he die peacefully?
Ike: ...Yes, he did.

Ike: Before he died, Reyson was able to undo what Ashnard had done to his body. Rajaion passed on in Ena's arms, with a contented smile, as if he were sleeping peacefully.
Kurthnaga: Thank you... It's a tremendous relief to know that.

Kurthnaga: My sister was tangled in Ashnard's schemes, our brother was killed, and her son taken away... She was unable to return to Goldoa and unable to consult our father... My sister has suffered so much. I wanted to help her.
Ike: So that's why you came to Daein... I'm sure that was difficult for you to tell me. Thank you.
Kurthnaga: Actually, it makes me feel a little better just talking about it.
Ike: I won't repeat a word of anything you just told me. I swear on my father's grave.

Ike: ...The dragon tribes, and the Black Knight... They both lead back to Daein. Something about that country always draws me back to it...


@Narration
Tibarn's party takes a long, circuitous route leading them east around Lake Semper. The Hawk King's company includes Queen Elincia of Crimea, her trusted aide Lucia, the heron prince Reyson, the laguz warrior Ranulf, Daein's King Pelleas, and the queen mother, Almedha. While they receive reports from the other two groups about the Disciples of Order, they have encountered no resistance, and have thus far traveled in peace.

@Conversation 
Rafiel: Mmph.
Ike: What’s wrong, Prince Rafiel? Are you feeling sick?
Rafiel: ...No. I am all right. Thank you, though.
Ike: ...You’re a real puzzle, you know that?
Rafiel: Why do you say that?
Ike: You look a lot like your brother Reyson, but you’re nothing like him. Reyson looks delicate, but on the inside he’s all iron. You, on the other hand... I don’t know. I worry that I might kill you if I shout too loud or something.
Rafiel: ...I’m sorry.
Ike: See? That’s exactly what I mean! You should get mad at me for saying that, not say "I’m sorry." I mean, come on!
Rafiel: I-I apologize.
Ike: There you go again! What I mean is that--
Nailah: That’s enough, Ike. Rafiel is everything that herons are expected to be: quiet, elegant, and delicate. Those are words people use to describe herons, and he fits all three.
Ike: Yeah, well... None of those words fit Reyson.
Nailah: True. Maybe Princess Leanne is only so innocent and sweet because she was asleep for twenty years. Prince Reyson certainly doesn’t seem to have any of the characteristics herons are known for.
Ike: King Tibarn did mention that "real" herons are more like Prince Rafiel.
Nailah: Prince Reyson spent a long time in the care of the hawk tribe. No doubt he’s picked up all sorts of quirks. Thank goodness Reyson hasn’t picked up Tibarn’s speech or mannerisms, though. It would be completely ridiculous. Can you imagine a man with Reyson’s looks, talking and acting like Tibarn? I don’t think I could help but laugh at him.
Ike: Well, he told me he wanted to be just like King Tibarn. He admires Tibarn a great deal.
Rafiel: Reyson said that?
Ike: Yeah. What about you?
Rafiel: Well... Sure, it’d be nice to be a bit more like Tibarn, I suppose.
Ike: Well, it looks like you guys really are brothers after all.
Nailah: Ike, be quiet. You’re a bad influence! I won’t allow Rafiel to be tainted like that.

Mist: Ike!
Ike: What is it, Mist?
Mist: Take a look at this!
Ike: How odd. Looks like a master crown.
Mist: I had the strangest vision just now. There were these places on the ground which were shining. One was close, so I went to take a look, and here it was!
Ike: Stop it. You sound like Yune when you talk like that. The enemy could attack at any time, so don’t go wandering around alone.
Mist: All right. You’re the boss!

Aimee: Ooo, it’s my hero, Ike! I’ll take the spot next to you.
Ike: Hello, Aimee.
Aimee: Would you do me a favor? Take this and give it to little Soren. It’s an extremely rare item. We don’t know what we’ll run into out there. He’ll be ready for anything with a powerful tome like this.
Ike: What, you can’t give it to him yourself?
Aimee: Oh, no way! I’m trying to get YOUR attention. So I’d much rather give it to you.
Ike: That’s very direct of you.
Aimee: Because you can be so thick sometimes! I swear, you wouldn’t know how I felt if I didn’t tell you outright.
Ike: Even if I did, I wouldn’t do anything about it.
Aimee: That’s fine. I understand. You still have things you want to do, places you want to explore. That’s why you don’t want to be tied down by a relationship. I know how you are.
Ike: Uh...
Aimee: But someday, you’ll be ready to settle down. When you are, maybe you’ll think of me. That’s why I’m starting work on you now! Don’t worry about it...for now.
Ike: But it DOES worry me!
Aimee: See? You’re already under my spell! Well, good night! Sleep well, my hero.
Ike: That woman has issues with reality.
/***EOF***/
@Intro
Tauroneo: A rebellion in the empire?! Is that true?
Sothe: Yes. The empire has been thrown into chaos since General Zelgius freed Prime Minister Sephiran. They've incited the peasants by asking, "Who should you believe in? The senate, or the apostle?"
Tauroneo: And the people have chosen the apostle, correct?
Sothe: Yes. They're rioting in the capital day and night, demanding answers. The senate is busy trying to quell the masses.
Tauroneo: This is great news! If we were to forge and alliance between Daein and the apostle's supporters in Begnion--
???: That is not a wise choice.
Pelleas: The curse on the blood pact will begin killing our people as soon as we do anything the senate doesn't care for. Defeating the senate doesn't guarantee the curse will be broken either. In fact, it may ensure it can never be broken. In which case, Daein's destruction will come more slowly, but it will come nonetheless.
Sothe: So, we can't attack the senate, and we can't ask for help. The only thing we can do is search for a way to get rid of the curse. This is driving me crazy...
Tauroneo: If we could only contact the apostle... But if the senate heard a word of it, they'd destroy us. Our hands are tied.
Pelleas: Luckily for us, that's not true. I have some good news, for a change. I found a way to break the blood pact. Where is Micaiah? Please bring her here.
Sothe: You discovered how to break the blood pact?! I'll get her right away. 

@Dialogue
Micaiah: You can't be serious, Your Majesty!
Pelleas: But, I am. Don't you see?! This is the way to save Daein! The information was in a book hidden away in a secret room. I think it is reliable.
Tauroneo: I must ask you to reconsider, my king. There has to be another way. There must be!
Pelleas: We can't afford to wait for another solution to present itself. We have to try.
Micaiah: ...I cannot go through with it.
Pelleas: Micaiah, the life of every single person in Daein depends on this! If it works, we can stop fighting this absurd war. It will be all right. I know this will work! Please do this for me, Micaiah.
Micaiah: I can't! I thought I made up my mind... I thought I'd do anything for Daein! But then I saw Sothe taken from me, and I saw him fall... I was powerless to do anything! I'd taken so many lives as a general, and yet, when I thought of Sothe dead...
Pelleas: Even if it hadn't been Sothe in front of you, you would have reacted the same way. That's the kind of person you are.
Pelleas: Individual lives taken before your eyes weigh more heavily than the many lives taken during the chaos of war. If that life is someone dear, the burden is even worse. It's only human. Isn't that true?
Pelleas: Micaiah. It's your caring soul that I admire. That's why I want it to be you.
Pelleas: I want you to kill me.
Micaiah: No, I can't! I can't do it! Don't make me do this, please!
Pelleas: "The blood pact breaks when the pact-maker is killed by a third party." That is exactly how it's written. This is the only way to save Daein.
Micaiah: Please! Please don't ask me to do such a horrible thing.
Pelleas: This is my duty as king, Micaiah! If you won't do it, I must ask someone else!

^start
Micaiah: All right... I'll do it... I'll do it for you, and for Daein.
Pelleas: Thank you, Micaiah. 
Pelleas: General Tauroneo. Please look after the people of Daein.
Tauroneo: Yes...Your Majesty.
Pelleas: Sothe. I'm sorry for all that I put you and Micaiah through, including this. Please forgive me.
Sothe: Don't worry about that now, Pelleas.
Pelleas: Micaiah. Please give this ring to my mother. Tell her that I loved her dearly.
Micaiah: ...I will, Your Majesty.
Pelleas: Good-bye, my friends. 
Micaiah: Your Majesty. Sniff...what have I done?
Almedha: Pelleas! Is he here?!
Almedha: NOOOOO!  Pelleas! My dear Pelleas! 
Almedha: Who did this?! Who killed my son?! Was it you?! I know who it was... YOU! You killed my Pelleas!
Micaiah: ...
Sothe: It was the king's wish. He sacrified himself to make Daein free. He asked Micaiah to end his life.
Tauroneo: It was an honorable end for a king. Thanks to his noble sacrifice, Daein has been saved.
Almedha: Fools! Is that what you think?! Daein has not been saved!
Tauroneo: Wh-what do you mean, my queen?!
Almedha: Take a good look.
Almedha: The mark is still on his wrist. My son's death was in vain!
Micaiah: No! It can't be! Sothe, tell me that it isn't true...
Almedha: Murderer! Give me back my son! You took my only son! Give him back!

Micaiah: I...I'm sorry. I can't do this...
Pelleas: I see... That is all right, Micaiah. I know it's a terrible thing to ask.
Pelleas: ...General Tauroneo. It is your duty.
Tauroneo: Your Majesty... Is this necessary?
Pelleas: This is your king's order, General. You must obey.
Tauroneo: Such will, at so young an age! ...As you wish, Your Majesty.
Pelleas: General Tauroneo. Please look after the people of Daein.
Tauroneo: Yes...Your Majesty.
Pelleas: Sothe. I'm sorry for all that I put you and Micaiah through, including this. Please forgive me.
Sothe: Don't worry about that now, Pelleas.
Pelleas: Micaiah. Please give this ring to my mother. Tell her that I loved her dearly.
Micaiah: ...I will, Your Majesty.
Pelleas: Good-bye, my friends. 
Tauroneo: ...
Micaiah: Your Majesty... Sniff... What have we done?
Almedha: Pelleas! Is he here?!
Almedha: NOOOOO!  Pelleas! My dear Pelleas!
Tauroneo: Queen Almedha...
Almedha: Who did this?! Who killed my son?! Was it you?! I know who it was... YOU! You killed my Pelleas!
Tauroneo: No, Queen Almedha. It was I. I killed the king.
Almedha: Traitor!
Sothe: It was the king's wish. He sacrificed himself to make Daein free. He asked Micaiah to end his life.
Tauroneo: It was an honorable end for a king. Thanks to his noble sacrifice, Daein has been saved.
Almedha: Fools! Is that what you think?! Daein has not been saved!
Tauroneo: Wh-what are you saying, my queen?!
Almedha: Take a good look.
Almedha: The mark is still on his wrist. My son's death was in vain!
Micaiah: No! It can't be! Sothe, tell me that it isn't true...
Almedha: Murderer! Give me back my son! You took my only son! Give him back! Bring him back to me!

Micaiah: I...I'm sorry. I can't do this...
Pelleas: I see... That is all right, Micaiah. I know it's a terrible thing to ask. ...General Tauroneo. It is your duty.
Tauroneo: Your Majesty... Is this necessary?
Pelleas: This is your king's order, General. You must obey.
Tauroneo: Such will, at so young an age! ...As you wish, Your Majesty.

Pelleas: General Tauroneo. Please look after the people of Daein.
Tauroneo: Yes...Your Majesty...
Pelleas: Sothe. I'm sorry for all that I put you and Micaiah through, including this. Please forgive me.
Sothe: Don't worry about that now, Pelleas.
Pelleas: Micaiah. Please give this ring to my mother. Tell her that I loved her dearly.
Micaiah: ...I will, Your Majesty.
Pelleas: Good-bye, my friends. 
Micaiah: NO! This is wrong! We can't give up, Your Majesty! 
Tauroneo: Eh?
Pelleas: Micaiah?!
Tauroneo: Lady Micaiah...
Pelleas: What did you do?!
Micaiah: I...I'm all right. I...
Pelleas: Fetch a healer! Now!
Micaiah: No, I'm fine, really. I'm just confused... Is the goddess telling me that I'm not worthy to become a martyr for Daein?
Pelleas: Or maybe she is saying that you're just too important to lose... But this is my fault! It was all because I signed that blood pact! I can only amend my mistake by giving my life!
Micaiah: You must stop running, Your Majesty.
Pelleas: Wha--!
Micaiah: But what if your information is incorrect, Your Majesty? I couldn't live with myself if I'd let you give up your life in vain. There MUST be another way! We'll look for it together. There is... I... I can see...
Sothe: Micaiah! Hey, Micaiah! Wake up!
Tauroneo: I will call a healer right away! 
Pelleas: Micaiah... Thank you...
^end

@Intro
Tibarn: Welcome back. What's going on with Daein?
Janaff: They're hold up in this big castle to the east. I'd say ten thousand soldiers, give or take. They're looking pretty desperate.
Tibarn: To the east, eh? It's just like Soren said. Nox is the next battlefield.

Ranulf: Ten thousand? They aren't really going to try to fight us with only ten thousand men, are they? It'd be suicide!
Sanaki: Daein should know about the rebellion in the empire by now. We should speak with them. They have nothing to gain by siding with the senate. Why continue the fighting?
Ike: We can't afford to lose any more troops or time here, either. We should be at the senate's doorstep by now.
Sanaki: Agreed. Sephiran has earned some time for us. We can't afford to lose that advantage. We must press on. Let us win this battle quickly and continue on our way!

Rafiel: General Ike. Please allow us to join you on the battlefield.
Ike: Shouldn't you be watching over the medallion with your brother and sister? Is it really a good idea for you to be away?
Rafiel: They can manage without me for a while. I am here because I must see Micaiah. I want to save her. I can reason with her. I know it.
Nailah: If we can talk to her face-to-face, maybe she will understand. It's also for our own peace of mind.
Ike: All right. Come with us. I'll tell my men to avoid firing at Micaiah. Sound good?
Rafiel: Thank you, Ike.


Daein: The outer gate has been breached! The apostle's army is storming the castle!
Sothe: Here they come.
Micaiah: ...It all ends here.

Ike: Let's finish this fight quickly! All units, attack!
Micaiah: We will not lose! We cannot lose! If we lose today, everything Pelleas has done will have been in vain! In the name of King Pelleas, fight for Daein!


Daein: Maiden, please take this. You are the commander general of the Daein army. It is imperative that you lead our troops from this spot. However, with this tome, you can aid your allies from afar.
Micaiah: Thank you.

@Battle
Ranulf: Ike, are you safe? Wait, that was a dumb question, wasn't it? I don't think any of us are safe at the moment.
Ike: Are you guys finished with the preparations?
Ranulf: Yeah. The rest of the force is on the way. They should arrive any minute.
Ike: All right. Once we merge, we'll launch the attack.

Nailah: Rafiel, are you ready? Let's go look for Micaiah. Do not leave my side; these beorc look edgy.
Rafiel: Yes, Queen Nailah. I'll be closer than your own shadow.

@Battle-Talk 
%Sothe,Nailah
Sothe: Queen Nailah! Are you going to try to hurt Micaiah?
Nailah: No, silly boy. I'm here to talk to her. Since you know me, why don't you take me to her? I would prefer not to kill all your soldiers if I can help it.
Sothe: I'm sorry, but I can't do that. I can't let a laguz near Micaiah. Lots of people from Daein have issues with the laguz.
Nailah: We are not your enemy.
Sothe: I know that, but our troops wouldn't understand. I'm sorry, Queen Nailah.
Nailah: ...Very well, then.
Sothe: I'm...I'm ashamed it has to be like this.
Nailah: Try not to worry. Just...survive, all right? Watch after Micaiah, as well.
Sothe: I will. We're fighting for our survival as it is. I don't plan to let anyone go.

%Volug,Nailah
Volug: (Your Majesty...)
Nailah: Let me hear it from you. Why is Daein involved in this war?
Volug: (The Daein king was tricked into cooperating with Begnion.)
Nailah: What about Micaiah? And Sothe?
Volug: (They haven’t changed at all. They fight for the continued survival of their country.)
Nailah: I see. They are our friends. We cannot let them fall.

@Recruit-Battlle
Ike: Why would you seek me out? I won't have mercy on my enemies. That goes for former allies, too!

Ike: They’re holding out longer than I expected.
Titania: Ike! Our forces on the western wall broke through the Daein defenses! They’re requesting reinforcements. We should move our forces to the breach.
Ike: All right. I just hope we’re able to keep Micaiah from doing anything rash. All units, to the western wall!

%Sothe,Ike
Sothe: Commander Ike...
Ike: Are you prepared this time, Sothe? Are you really sure about this?
Sothe: Yes. Our battle has no justice. There is no victory in this war. Only pointless killing. But this is the path I've chosen.
Ike: Then stick to your chosen path. I'll strike you down with one blow. That's the least I can do for you.
Sothe: ...Thank you, Commander.

%Micaiah,Ike
Ike: Micaiah, we have to talk. This is insane.
Micaiah: What's insane about a people fighting for their country?
Ike: There's got to be something we can do! Let us help, please!
Micaiah: Why would you want to help us, after everything we've done? No, after everything I've done...
Ike: We know you don't want this fight. Isn't there any way for us to avoid it?
Micaiah: ...No. No, I'm afraid there isn't.
Ike: Just talk to me! We can find a way!
Micaiah: You don't understand. We can't stop. I'm sorry, but I can't explain it more clearly than that.
Ike: Micaiah, I don't want you to die. I don't want all of your soldiers to die. You have to let me help you.
Micaiah: Ike... Now I see it. Now it makes sense.
Ike: What makes sense?
Micaiah: Sothe always spoke so highly of you. Now I know the reason. You truly are a good person. It's a shame...
Ike: Why is that a shame?
Micaiah: Because it makes what I have to do even harder. Please prepare yourself. Let's put an end to this.
Ike: As you wish. Good-bye, Micaiah.
Micaiah:  ...strike my enemy!

@Recruit-Battle 
Soren: ...Ugh... What a terrible place... to die...
Ike: Soren, retreat!
Soren: But, Ike...
Ike: Aren’t you supposed to be my strategist? Use your head! I need your help.
Soren: ...I see. As you command...

%Micaiah,Soren
Soren: Our last battle, in the valley. Was that your strategy?
Micaiah: ...
Soren: That was impressive. You killed thousands of beorc soldiers with your little ambush. Well done.
Micaiah: I...
Soren: The Maiden of Dawn... What are you? One of the Branded, that’s for sure. But there is something else about you... Power. Yes, I can feel it in you. You possess great power.
Micaiah: Yes, and you would know. There’s something very different about you, too. Your energy feels so...ancient. You and I seem to have so much in common.
Soren: That doesn’t matter in the slightest. The only thing that does matter is that you are a dangerous adversary. You are also in Ike’s path, so it falls to me to remove you. It’s almost a shame. Farewell, Maiden of Dawn.
Micaiah: So, you fight for someone, as well. So very much alike... But I will defeat you. I will protect the ones I love!

@Recruit-Battle 
Mist: Oww! Hey, that hurts! Sorry, Ike. I’m going to pull back.

%Jill,Mist
Mist: Jill! Why? Why are you doing this?!
Jill: I’m sorry, Mist. There’s no way we can turn back now.
Mist: But, Jill...
Jill: Mist...run. I won’t be expected to kill you if you just turn and run!

@Character-Falls
Titania: Ugh... They got me...
Ike: Titania! Retreat and don’t exert yourself. We wouldn’t be complete if you weren’t here. We need you.
Titania: Ah, I understand, Ike. ... You’ve... grown to become a legend... Greil... are you watching? Be proud of your son.

Ranulf: Arg! Like being hit... with a mountain...
Tibarn: Ranulf! Enough! Get back! I can’t let you die! What would I tell King Caineghis and Skrimir?
Ranulf: ...I’m sorry, King Tibarn...

Boyd: Ugh! They hit me good. I hate to say it, but I have to pull back!

Oscar: The enemy uses good tactics. Sorry, Ike. I’m pulling back for now.

Shinon: Why do these softheads keep fighting?! There’s no chance they’ll ever win this battle! I’m pulling back for now. I’m not wasting my arrows on these fools!

Gatrie: Ugh! Hey, you’re pretty good! Better than I expected, honestly. Ike, I’m pulling back.

Rolf: I... I guess it’s over...

Rhys: Ugh! That’s it for me... I’m pulling back now, everyone.

Mia: They’re strong! I can’t defeat them! But I’ll be stronger tomorrow, and then we’ll see who wins!

@Battle
Daein: Maiden of Dawn! The enemy is approaching. Please, you must withdraw inside the castle! 
Micaiah: Our defenses have been broken... We did everything we could. It's only a matter of time now.  Daein soldiers, pull back immediately! Take up positions inside the castle! We won't let them take us without a fight!

Daein: The inner gate has been breached! It's only a matter of time before they break through the inner walls. 
Sothe: That was fast. We didn't even get a chance to rest.
Micaiah: Isn't there anything else we can do? King Pelleas has worked so hard to find the answer... Was it for nothing? There must be something... A rumor, old folklore... Anything...
Sothe: Hold on. Didn't Lady Almedha seem to know something about the blood pact? Come to think of it, she recognized the mark of the pact on Pelleas's arm right away, like she'd seen one before.
Micaiah: You're right!  Why didn't I realize it sooner? Where is she? Where is Lady Almedha?!
Daein: General! It's no use! We can't hold them off any longer! Enemy troops have broken through and are headed this way! Escape while you can!
Micaiah: No! I must find Lady Almedha! Everything depends on it!

Ike: Break down that gate! If they won't come out, we'll just let ourselves in. All forces, advance!
Ranulf: Ike! We have a problem! A big problem. All this battlefield chaos is starting to really affect the laguz. They're on the verge of losing control. I can't stop them, Ike! If they find Micaiah, they're going to tear her apart. I guarantee it.
Ike: Blast! We need to get them under control. Where's Skrimir?


Janaff: Sheesh! What a relief to finally have the end of this thing in sight. I can't believe what a fight the Daein army put up, especially considering their numbers. Wait a minute... Hey, Ulki. What the heck is that on the horizon?
Ulki: It's flying toward us... The flapping sounds heavier than a wyvern... It sounds huge.
Tibarn: Oh, you've got to be kidding me... All units, get down! NOW!





Ena: All of you are ordered to throw down your weapons and cease fighting! Do this for your own welfare.
Ike: Ena! Elincia! What's going on here?
Ranulf: It's a black dragon of Goldoa...
Ike: Tibarn, what's going on?
Tibarn: Why are you asking me? All I know is that I'm not ready to step up to a black dragon. Did you see that blast?
Ike: Point taken. All units, retreat! Platoon commanders, gather your men!


Micaiah: What just happened? Why did the apostle's army leave? And what was that horrible sound?
???: Micaiah!
Micaiah: Kurth! Where have you been? I haven't seen you since you left for home. How did you get here? Why would you even come to a horrible place like this?
Kurthnaga: I wanted to save you...and my sister, as well.
Micaiah: Your sister? She's here?
Kurthnaga: Never mind that now. I'm just glad you're safe. Are you hurt?
Micaiah: No, I don't think so. I'm just very confused right now.

Daein: The sub-humans are here! Protect the maiden with your lives!
Micaiah: Stop! Stand down, all of you!

Micaiah: Queen Nailah... Rafiel... I... Th-thank you. Thank you...so...much... 
Rafiel: It's all right, Micaiah. It'll be all right...


Ike: That black dragon is Prince Kurthnaga? Sheesh, I thought the lions got big...
Tibarn: Ah, it's the son, is it? I thought maybe the dragon king had shrunk a bit in his old age.
Skrimir: You all know the dragon prince of Goldoa?
Ranulf: Yeah. Goldoa hosted a meeting of laguz royalty three years ago. That's when Tibarn and I met him.
Ike: Elincia and I met him around the same time. I'd say he was a nice kid, except that he's older than all of us put together.
Ena: The prince hopes to avoid the complete destruction of Daein and its people. He wishes to stop the fighting. We would like to ask you to implement a cease-fire and hold a peace talk.
Sanaki: We have attempted to hold peace talks with Daein on multiple occasions! They refuse to listen to reason, and instead choose to fight. We have no more time to waste on people who choose war over peace at every turn!
Ena: Your people are waiting for you in Begnion. Is that what presses you?
Ike: It's not just that. All this strife and chaos has affected the medallion. It's shining brighter each day.
Elincia: No! that can't be!
Ena: The blue flame burns once more...

Ena: The light that radiates from the medallion looks like blue fire. It's this flaming aura that earned the medallion its other name: the Fire Emblem.
Sanaki: The Fire Emblem...
Ena: The flames on the Fire Emblem indicate the awakening of the dark god. If the war is allowed to continue, nothing can stop the dark god's awakening. We must halt this fighting.
Sanaki: If there is a way to stop the fighting, we shall do everything in our power to aid in that effort. We have pursued peace since this began.
Ena: Then let us wait until Prince Kurthnaga returns. He is speaking with the leaders of Daein now.

Ike: Elincia, what are you doing here? Did Ena and Kurth ask you to bring them to this battle?
Elincia: No, that wasn't the case. Prince Kurthnaga and I ran into each other on our way here.
Lucia: We are actually in Daein to look for Count Bastian of Fayre.
Ike: Lucia! You're here, too?
Lucia: Of course. I cannot let Her Majesty out of my sight. You know that.
Elincia: Bastian... He'd been so good about sending me reports until recently.
Ike: He was searching for the Black Knight, right?

Elincia: After the Mad King's War, Begnion sent an envoy to investigate war crimes committed during Ashnard's reign. The Black Knight had already left Daein before the empire's observer arrived. Where he went remains a mystery. That was the last piece of information we received from Bastian. Then he sent word saying that something more important had come up with regards to Crimea. He's been missing ever since. I haven't heard a single word from him.

Ike: Bastian likes to keep his secrets. He's probably just laying low somewhere.
Lucia: I'm not so sure. He must've found something important, some new piece of information that he had to pursue.
Elincia: I ordered Geoffrey to watch over Crimea, and came here to begin a search for Bastian.
Ike: It's too dangerous for you and Lucia to travel by yourselves. Why don't you com with us? Everyone would love having you two around.
Elincia: Than you, Ike. We'll gladly accept the offer.

@Narration
Queen Elincia and the dragons of Goldoa persuade both armies to accept a temporary truce. The blue light that burns within the medallion grows more fierce with each passing day. To prevent the awakening of the evil trapped within, the fighting must be stopped.
However, the apostle and her army refuse to abandon Sephiran's forces in Begnion. Though they hoped that Daein would cease fighting, they knew battle was inevitable. The bloodshed begins anew.

@Conversation 
Leonardo: Say, Edward. We’ve been fighting really hard for quite a while now, haven’t we?
Edward: Yeah, I guess so. The war of emancipation, the war against the Laguz Alliance, and now against the apostle’s army. One after another, just like that.
Leonardo: The world can’t always be like this. These wars seem so pointless. All I want is to be able to live in Daein, peacefully and in freedom.
Edward: Yeah. The military is a pretty strange place. Hey, I have an idea! Once this battle is over, I’ll quit the army and go home.
Leonardo: What about Micaiah and the others? Are you going to abandon them?
Edward: What? No way! I’ll just have to talk them into leaving with me! And if that catches on, all the soldiers will leave, and then there can’t be a war. And then Daein will have peace again!
Leonardo: You know, I don’t think it’s that simple. But your plan sounds good to me, Edward.
Edward: See? You know it’s smart! First, you and I will leave. Together, we can tackle any obstacle!
Leonardo: We’ll have to survive the next battle, first. This should help. Here. Look what I got you.
Edward: Oh! This sword is amazing! Where did you get this!?
Leonardo: I’ve been saving up. Micaiah chipped in, too.
Edward: You got this for me?
Leonardo: Yeah. Since you’re always fighting so recklessly, I thought this sword would be a good match for you.
Edward: Thanks, Leonardo! You’re the best friend I could have!
Leonardo: I know. We’re each other’s best friend and family.

Aran: Hey, Laura! You dropped a staff over there.
Laura: Oh! Ah. Thank you, Aran.
Aran: You’ve been carrying a lot of things lately.
Laura: Yes, I suppose so. Many people are injured. I wanted to help heal as many of them as I can.
Aran: That’s admirable. Is there anything I can do to help?
Laura: Yes, of course!
Aran: First, hand me all of your things. I’ll carry them for you.
Laura: That would be great. Here you go. Say...
Aran: Hmm?
Laura: That staff you picked up earlier... It doesn’t belong to me.
Aran: Really? It was right at your feet, so I’d assumed that it was yours.
Laura: I’ve never seen a staff like this. I wonder what effect it has?
Aran: Hey, be careful. It might be dangerous or something. Let’s throw it away.
Laura: Well, maybe if I shake it like this... And then... Whoa!
Aran: Wuh!
Laura: What did you say, Aran?
Aran: Zzz... Zzz...
Laura: Oh, Aran. You’re such a clown. How do you fall asleep on your feet? I guess you must be really tired. Why don’t I just leave you be? Let me just take my things back.
Aran: Zzz... Zzz... Zzz...
/***EOF***/
@Intro
Elincia: I hope Lady Almedha is all right. How is she doing?
Tibarn: Reyson's song seems to have calmed her for now.
Elincia: I see...
Tibarn: What about her son? How's he feeling?
Elincia: He is sleeping right now. He's quite exhausted, understandably. We've been fighting one battle after another.
Tibarn: Pelleas is so fragile compared to his mother. Actually, they don't seem anything alike. That Almedha is a formidable woman. At first I doubted her claim that she was the daughter of that useless old lizard. But even I had trouble holding her down. Me! She's no ordinary beorc woman, that's for sure.
Elincia: I agree. Lady Almedha and Prince Kurthnaga share a striking resemblance, as well. Not just their faces, but their mannerisms, too.
Tibarn: Is that how beorc spot blood relations? We laguz use scent, mainly. Speaking of which, something has been bothering me about Almedha. She has no distinct scent. It's as if she is neither beorc nor laguz.
Elincia: She actually told me something that I wanted to ask you about. She said that she lost her power when she became pregnant with King Pelleas.
Tibarn: Hm. So the ancient songs are true...
Elincia: What songs would those be?
Tibarn: It is said that the goddesses forbid laguz and beorc to procreate. If a couple breaks the taboo, the punishment is dealt to the laguz parent. She or he loses the power of the laguz and becomes something that does not belong to either species. ...Did you hear something? Who goes there?
Elincia: King Tibarn?
???: If the songs are indeed true, then it is my duty to keep the honorable hawk king from being alone with my bewitching queen! Do you not agree, Your Majesty?
Elincia: Who--
Bastian: My apologies for the lateness of the hour. Proper social graces are most difficult to observe in wartime.
Elincia: Bastian!
Bastian: I have been absent for a long time, Your Majesty. I apologize again from the deepest place in my heart.
Elincia: Oh, you are all right! How I worried for your safety!
Tibarn: Sorry to interrupt this tender reunion scene, but where on Tellius have you been, Lord Jester? What have you been doing up 'til now? Come on, I'm listening. Out with it!
Bastian: I suppose one as swift as our king of the skies is unlikely to count patience as one of his virtues. Fear not! I shall tell you everything. But first, I must ask you both to step away from other ears. And would it be possible to rouse the prince with the elegant white wings?
Tibarn: Are you asking me to get Reyson? Fine. But do me a favor and talk like a normal person, would you? 
Lucia: It is a terrible habit of yours, Bastian. I've never known anyone who talked so much, but said so little.
Bastian: Ah, my dear, beloved Lucia! It pains me to imagine your piteous tears during those cold, lonely nights without me! Be of good cheer, little one. This day, you may weep tears of joy in my loving embrace.
Lucia: Ever the optimist, eh, Bastian?


Elincia: Geoffrey? Is that you?
Geoffrey: It is.
Elincia: Geoffrey! You're safe, too!
Geoffrey: Queen Elincia... I swear that I shall never, ever leave your side again!
Elincia: Oh... I'm so glad...
Volke: ...Hello.
Geoffrey: I have told you not to sneak up on me, Volke. Your Majesty, this is Volke, a spy and..."fireman" in Count Bastian's employ. He was working for Ike during the Mad King's War, perhaps you remem--
Volke: Our captive has disappeared. He has been gone for approximately half an hour.
Bastian: He escaped?! No! We must find him! Here is your next assignment. Find the escaped prisoner immediately!
Volke: Two thousand gold.
Bastian: That will be fine. Make it quick.
Volke: Understood. 

Bastian: This is very rude of me after I was the one who asked you here, but we have an emergency. Would you all gather here again once we capture the escapee?
Reyson: That's fine. I'm not very fond of the dark, anyway. We'll gather later.
Bastian: Geoffrey, give me a hand, would you? I would like to take him to the carriage.
Elincia: Lucia, do you know who that man in the black cape is?
Lucia: I was curious, too. It's no use asking, though. Neither Bastian nor my brother would say anything.
Elincia: Even Geoffrey? I didn't think he ever kept secrets...
Lucia: A mysterious escaped prisoner...a man shrouded in black...it's a big night for secrets, isn't it?

@Conversation
Pelleas: Sigh.
Tauroneo: There you are, Your Majesty.
Pelleas: ...General Tauroneo.
Tauroneo: Is something wrong?
Pelleas: Take a look at this.
Tauroneo: The mark of the blood pact... It has faded quite a bit, hasn't it?
Pelleas: What do you think this means?
Tauroneo: Hmm... I do not know. I must think on it.
Pelleas: Yes, we'll both have to. The lives of Daein's people depend on it.
Tauroneo: Do you believe that people can be saved from the state they are in?
Pelleas: Of course I do. To be honest, I'm a little bit thankful for the situation right now. Daein was headed for destruction because of what I'd done. But what the goddess did has changed the course of things. I can't fail this time. I have to save everyone.
Tauroneo: Ah, I see. I shall do everything I can to assist.
Pelleas: Thank you.
Tauroneo: Your Majesty, this is for you.
Pelleas: It's a dark tome! Thank you, General Tauroneo. Dark tomes are harder to come by than tomes of other elements. How did you find it?
Tauroneo: I did not find it. Your gratitude belongs to someone else.
Pelleas: What do you mean?
Tauroneo: Lady Almedha looked for it at every village and town we stopped in. She gave it to me out of concern that you might not take it from her.
Pelleas: I see.
Tauroneo: Your Majesty. If you'll excuse me. 
Pelleas: Mother...


@Intro
Geoffrey: ...So, we have a bit of a predicament. I know it's none of your affair, but we would greatly benefit from laguz assistance in our hunt for last night's escapee.
Tibarn: No problem. I could use a little exercise before breakfast.
Geoffrey: Thank you, King Tibarn! Please, follow me.
Lucia: Why are the others up so early? What's going on?
Elincia: Is it the Disciples of Order? Are we under attack?
Geoffrey: No, Your Majesty... It's not the Disciples of Order. If you'll excuse me, I must go! 
Lucia: Wait, Geoffrey! ...Who does he think he is?
Elincia: Let's follow them.

Elincia: Bastian! What in the world is going on? I insist on a straight answer!
Geoffrey: Your Majesty! Sister! Why are you here?
Lucia: That's not important! Explain why there are Feral Ones here!
Bastian: See that odious man among them? He's controlling them. He is using fell magic to summon the poor laguz souls who were turned into Feral Ones! He is the man who escaped our custody last night. Volke found him just now.
Bastian: His name is Izuka. He designed the process that created the Feral Ones!
Tibarn: What?! He's the butcher who twisted the lives of my kinsmen? He won't die quickly. I'll make sure his screams are heard in Phoenicis, Gallia...even Goldoa.

Izuka: ...Dare not speak to me that way again... My work is humanity's greatest triumph... Depraved? Ha! ...Show them the meaning of genius! Come, my children, defend me! Come, my Feral Ones!
Elincia: We can't let a creature that twisted roam free. We must fight!

@Recruit-Talk
%Elincia,Volke
Elincia: Excuse me... Volke?
Volke: ...
Elincia: Um... Sir Fireman?
Volke: ...What is it?
Elincia: You seem to have some time on your hands... Would you mind helping us?
Volke: Three thousand.
Elincia: Three thousand?
Volke: ...That's what the job will cost you in gold.
Elincia: Fine. I shall pay you that amount after the battle.
Volke: Agreed. I await your order.
Elincia: Thank you. And, if I may ask...
Volke: What?
Elincia: Why do you need so much money?
Volke: One hundred thousand.
Elincia: Excuse me?
Volke: That's what it will cost you for me to answer that question. Are you prepared to pay it?
Elincia: ...No.
Volke: Then let's get to work. What shall I do first?

%Bastian,Volke
Bastian: Ah, my partner in crime. How shall I convince you to move those leaden feet of yours into action? How much "convincing" will it cost?
Volke: Three thousand.
Bastian: I thought I was the jester. Considering your usual schedule of services, three thousand is negligible!
Volke: I don't like that guy. Call it a personal discount. Do you want it or not?
Bastian: Of course I shall take your discount! Do as you wish when you see him. Now get to work.
Volke: Understood. 
Bastian: I almost pity old Izuka...

@Boss
Izuka: Don't you see? If I am harmed, my knowledge will be lost! Can the human race survive such a tragedy? If you fools cannot see the larger picture, you will have to be destroyed!

%Zihark,Izuka
Zihark: Izuka the Cruel... You are the author of this atrocity against nature? What gives you the right to perform your vile works on the laguz!
Izuka: The sub-humans are perfect subjects! What could be wrong with using them?
Zihark: ...She always told me not to let anger and hatred get the best of me, not to let them guide my blade... This will be my only exception.

%Ranulf,Izuka
Ranulf: I saw the results of your experiments at Gritnea Tower. The mutilated bodies...the rotting flesh... It was the most horrifying experience of my life. I wonder if my nightmares will pass when I kill you?
Izuka: How could you not see the importance of my beloved research? That was my life's work!
Ranulf: Then it is appropriate that you will pay for those terrible crimes with your life. My long-suffering kinsmen, watch as I destroy your tormentor!

%Volke,Izuka
Izuka: You! You're...
Volke: ...under a new contract. Good-bye, Izuka.
Izuka: Feral Ones! Kill him! Do it now!

%Bastian,Izuka
Izuka: Have a care, Crimean count! If my knowledge dies, so does your only hope of saving that man!
Bastian: Hmm...it's true that your knowledge is a valuable asset.
Izuka: Ah, my noble count! You are most merciful!
Bastian: I have some knowledge of anatomy. Once you are dead, perhaps I will dissect your brain and see if I can identify the root of your intelligence.
Izuka: Y-you monster! What you suggest is unconscionable!
Bastian: Exactly, yet you had no hesitation before doing worse to the laguz. I will speed you now to the afterlife, where you may contemplate your life's egregious mistakes.

%Lucia,Izuka
Izuka: Don't you see? If I am harmed, my knowledge will be lost! Can the human race survive such a tragedy? If you fools cannot see the larger picture, you will have to be destroyed!
Lucia: I don't know what atrocities caused Bastian to hold you prisoner, but I know what you did to the laguz, and that's reason enough for me to kill you!
Izuka: Don't be too rash! If you kill me, Crimea will surely suffer!
Lucia: I will silence your lying tongue, degenerate!

%Geoffrey,Izuka
Izuka: They've broken through my Feral Ones! I must create more!
Geoffrey: After the war against the Mad King, I always regretted not capturing you. Prepare yourself for justice!

%Pelleas,Izuka
Pelleas: Izuka!
Izuka: Ah, my dear prince Pelleas! Excuse me, King Pelleas! I'd assumed that you had been turned to stone. How nice to see you again! But I am saddened to see that you would betray me and fight alongside these shortsighted fools! I found you and set you on the path to royalty! I served you well, did I not?
Pelleas: I know that you've been working for the senate, Izuka.
Izuka: So you found out. Very well. At least I don't need to pretend anymore. It isn't like you will spare my life, anyway.
Pelleas: With most of Daein turned to stone, the blood pact can no longer harm anyone. But that doesn't change the fact that you tricked me into risking the life of every citizen of my kingdom. Why would you betray me, Izuka? Were you ever loyal to Daein?
Izuka: Betrayal? What of your betrayal to me? I remember well how you valued one worthless laguz life over mine! It was your betrayal that forced me to abandon my work! You were supposed to be my puppet, a weakling boy-king that I could control, giving me free reign!
Pelleas: What? How could that be...
Izuka: Oh, princeling boy, how completely I've fooled you... You are not King Ashnard's son. All I did was look for a boy that could pass for the king's son.
Pelleas: But... Mother said... She said she was certain that I was her child!
Izuka: Ah yes, Lady Almedha, paragon of sanity! She is certainly fit to identify a boy she hasn't seen in fifteen years. She was so desperate to have her son again that she would have believed anything I told her.
Pelleas: No... No! Stop it! Stop talking!

%Elincia,Izuka
Izuka: Elincia, the Crimean queen! Are you here to seek revenge?
Elincia: Revenge? On whose account? What are you talking about? I am arresting a dangerous fugitive.

%Tibarn,Izuka
Izuka: Ah... You must be the hawk king! Understand that my work was never intended to harm the laguz, specifically!
Tibarn: No power on Tellius will protect you from me. With your death, I can finally lay my brothers' souls to rest.

@Boss
Izuka: Aaaargh! But my work...is still...incomplete...

@End
Tibarn: Disgusting filth. I can't kill him enough times for what he's done!
Elincia: At least he is finally gone. No one else will suffer by his hands.
Reyson: I suppose that is all there is, then.


Ranulf: Laguz brothers and sisters, I hope your souls can find peace now.
???: Hey! Count Bastian!

Jorge: That man in the black cape you left with us is in bad shape! We can't even hold him down anymore!
Bastian: Oh no... Your Majesty, we must return immediately. I will explain everything.

Daniel: Oh, thank goodness you're here! I couldn't hold him down anymore. Please, follow me!

Man: Aaaaargh! Ahhh! Grrr... Graaaagh!
Bastian: Shhh! Calm down, sir. It's all right. You are a strong man. You will pull through! Please, you must calm yourself! Duke Renning!

Elincia: It cannot be!  Uncle! Uncle Renning! You are alive! Oh, you are alive!
Renning: Ugh... Ahhhhhh! Grrr...rr...
Elincia: What's wrong, Uncle? Please speak to me! It's me, Elincia!
Bastian: It's no use, Your Majesty. Your noble uncle's mind has been broken...by the drug that creates Feral Ones.
Elincia: No! How did this happen? Uncle! Uncle! You must hold on! Uncle Renning...


Elincia: Forgive me. Please give me a moment to collect myself.
Tibarn: What happened back there? Who is that man?
Bastian: That is Duke Renning, the younger brother of Crimea's last king, and Queen Elincia's uncle. He was next in line to become the king of Crimea, but-- He was believed killed in the last attack by Daein, three years ago.
Tibarn: I see. And what's wrong with him now?
Lucia: Bastian. No more secrets. It's time for you to tell us everything you know.
Bastian: Duke Renning was apparently killed three years ago... but as you can see, he is still alive.



Bastian: Duke Renning was one of the strongest warriors in Crimea, and while Daein tried to kill him, he survived. When the Mad King heard of his skill, he had Renning kidnapped and gave him the drug that creates Feral Ones. This drug made Duke Renning even stronger, but shattered his mind. He became Bertram, one of Ashnard's infamous Four Riders. After Her Majesty and company defeated him, I had him taken back to my castle. I hoped to find a cure, but I didn't want to raise false hope, Your Majesty, so I kept the secret. However, his mind continued to deteriorate, and there were no signs of improvement. As a last resort, I hired Volke to investigate a way to cure him.



Bastian: Volke quickly discovered that Duke Renning's transformation was engineered by a man called Izuka. This man had made himself an aide to the new king of Daein and was not difficult to locate. Feeling that Renning was running out of time, we kidnapped Izuka to learn more of the condition.

Bastian: Returning to Fayre Castle, we interrogated Izuka at length and discovered more about his experiments. Perhaps unsurprisingly, beorc are affected differently by the drug than laguz. Izuka then offered to create an antidote in exchange for his freedom.
Geoffrey: Did you agree to it?!
Bastian: We refused without a second thought. Such a monster cannot be allowed to roam free. Besides, we know a more certain way to cure Lord Renning.
Lucia: The galdr of rebirth!

Elincia: Prince Reyson, I beg of you. Please save my uncle!
Reyson: I can't guarantee anything, Elincia. But I will try.
Elincia: Oh, thank you, Prince Reyson! Thank you!
Reyson: Please give me a moment to myself. I must prepare.

Tibarn: Are you sure about this? I thought the galdr of rebirth was too powerful and complex for a single heron to perform.
Reyson: Usually, that's true. Right now, however, Ashera's awakening has infused the world with order; I've never felt stronger. What's more, Lord Renning's condition seems less severe than a true Feral One. I think I can do this.
Tibarn: Well, you're the expert. Just don't go taking unnecessary risks.
Reyson: I won't, Tibarn. You needn't worry so much. I've grown a lot.


Renning: ...Grr...grrr... Aaarrrrgh! Grragh...
Elincia: Uncle! Hold on!

Renning: ...Unnnhh...

Reyson: ...It worked. He's sleeping peacefully. When he wakes, he should be his old self.
Elincia: Oh! Thank you, Reyson. Thank you!

Ranulf: So, how's Prince Reyson?
Tibarn: He's asleep with a big, contented smile on his face. He'll be fine.
Ranulf: I suppose we should give thanks to Goddess Ashera. Her power gave strength to Prince Reyson and saved Duke Renning's life.
Tibarn: It's hard to think of her as the bad guy after seeing a thing like that. Goddess Ashera, huh? I can't die until I see what she looks like.

@Narration
Ike and company manage to evade their persistent foes, finally arriving in Sienne, the capital of Begnion.
The Tower of Guidance. According to the Creed of the Goddess, which has been taught across the continent by Begnion, this is where the goddess Ashera will appear during times of great crisis to lead the people to safety. As even the smallest child in Begnion knows, the tower is sacred, and mere mortals may not enter.
With the world edging toward catastrophe, the tower glows like a pillar of pure light, as though to pierce through the very heavens.

@Conversation 
Amy: Oh! Queen Elincia!
Elincia: Amy! You’re safe! Oh, I’m so glad! It’s so good to see you!
Amy: I came here with General Geoffrey.
Elincia: With Geoffrey?
Geoffrey: I was outside on the day when the bright light engulfed everything. At first, I thought that time had stopped. Then I realized that time was normal, but everyone around me had been turned to stone. I rode around the city to investigate, and I found this little girl crying in Calill’s bar.
Elincia: Did you find anyone else? What about Largo?
Geoffrey: ...
Elincia: No... How tragic. How am I going to tell Calill?
Amy: Mommy is here!? I want to see my mommy!
Elincia: Yes. She is here, Amy. Lucia?
Lucia: Yes, Your Majesty. Amy, do you want to see your mommy? Here, take my hand. We’ll go together.
Amy: Yay! I can’t wait to see her!
Reyson: How unusual. I can’t believe a small child like that has been saved from petrification. Isn’t she the first?
Elincia: King Tibarn, Prince Reyson.
Tibarn: I’d assumed that only the people with a certain amount of power were safe from petrification, but I guessed wrong.
Reyson: I’m wondering if there are even rules at all.
Elincia: Hmm.
Amy: Mommy!
Calill: Amy! You’re safe! Thank goodness. I’m so glad!
Amy: M-Mommy! Daddy couldn’t move! H-he wouldn’t say anything! He... Sniff... Wahhhhhhh!
Calill: There, there. It’ll be all right. Mommy will take care of Daddy. Mommy and Queen Elincia are going to save all the people who can’t move. Everything will be all right. Daddy will be back soon. I promise.
Amy: All right... Sniff... Sniff...

Janaff: Sheesh, all I’m saying is that you should take it, Ulki!
Ulki: No... You are older than me. One must respect one’s elders. It’s yours, Janaff.
Janaff: That’s not fair! You only say things like that when it’s convenient for you. We’re only five years apart!
Ulki: Five years is five years. You deserve the perks due someone of your age. You take it.
Janaff: Did you just call me an old codger!?
Tibarn: Come on, I don’t care who keeps it. Just make a decision already.
Janaff: Shut up, Tibarn! This is between me and Ulki!
Ulki: Should you really be addressing your king with words like those?
Janaff: Who cares? It’s not like anyone else can hear.
Ulki: Selfish little magpie.
Janaff: Hey! Lookit me! I’m Ulki, the solitary peacock!
Tibarn: All right, Janaff, that’s enough.
Janaff: What?! How am I the one getting scolded!?
Tibarn: You too, Ulki. You know how to press his buttons. Don’t egg him on like that.
Ulki: ...Fine.
Reyson: What are you fighting over?
Tibarn: They’re arguing over who would take my gift. Neither of them seem willing to take it.
Reyson: Really? How uncharacteristically selfless of you to put up a fight, Ulki.
Janaff: What do you mean, White Prince? Ulki is just being an ungrateful wretch for not appreciating my thoughtfulness! He’ll never understand!
Ulki: Since the item is so nice, I thought that you should have it. I’m not the stubborn one here.
Reyson: Well, since neither of you want it, I’ll take it.
Janaff: What!?
Ulki: ...Prince Reyson?
Reyson: It will come in handy during a battle, right? Then I’ll wear it and fight next to Tibarn. Sure, it’s good to be thoughtful and giving, but if neither of you appreciates it, there’s no point.
Tibarn: Reyson’s right! All right, this is for you. Reyson can be my one and only aide from now on. I shoulda thought of this sooner.
Janaff: W-wait! No, I’ll take it!
Ulki: No, I shall take it.
Janaff: Ulki?
Ulki: Once we have it, Janaff and I will discuss who should wear the item.
Tibarn: Do you agree to this, Janaff?
Janaff: Um... Yes, I do. I have no problem with that.
Tibarn: Reyson?
Reyson: That’s fine with me. As long as you agree to keep me nearby, I’m all right with whatever you decide.
Tibarn: It’s a done deal, then. Now, don’t you two feel a little stupid after getting lectured like that? And by Reyson, as well!
Janaff: ...Sorry, Ulki.
Ulki: I... I apologize, too.
Janaff: I’ve been with you and Tibarn since our feathers hadn’t even grown in yet. I guess we know each other a little too well. Well, the White Prince certainly reminded me of who I am. I’m an aide to the king of Phoenicis!
Ulki: Me, too. Here, Janaff. This is for you.
Janaff: ...Hey, wait a minute! You think you pulled a fast one on me, don’t you?! Get back here, Ulki!
/***EOF***/
@Intro
Micaiah: I hope the others escaped...
Laura: I'm sure they are safe and secure, just as I'm sure the abbot got his medicine. I believe in them.
Aimee: Pardon... Excuse me. Not to pry, but did you know you're bleeding? You've got some blood on your sleeve there.
Micaiah: Hm? Oh, you're right! I've been so distracted, I didn't even notice...
Aimee: Unfortunately, there are no vulneraries to heal you in this rat hole... Here, try wrapping this cloth around your wound.
Micaiah: Thank you very much. I don't believe we've met. I'm Micaiah.
Aimee: I'm Aimee. I've been a lucky guest in this dungeon for quite some time. On behalf of myself and my snoozing friend over there, Ilyana, it's very nice to meet you, Micaiah.
Ilyana: ...Mm...
Micaiah: Why are you two in here?
Aimee: I wish I knew! I belong to a merchant caravan that was passing through en route to the next market day. When we arrived here, we were brought to this charming prison against our will. Now, we await "the general's pleasure."
Laura: I see. Well, that doesn't sound good. How unfortunate.
???: Um...
Aimee: So you can talk. You've been so quiet over there, I assumed you didn't speak our language.
???: ...if you wish, you may use this salve on your wound. It's an infusion of olivi grass.
Aimee: Olivi grass? Hm, I've never heard of it. Are you sure it's safe?
???: It's unquestionably safe...and effective.
Micaiah: Thank you most kindly. I'll try it.
Aimee: Well, aren't you the trusting one? Are you honestly comfortable applying a strange medicine to your wound?
Micaiah: I am. I know it will work. Thank you for sharing your medicine.
???: You're welcome!
Micaiah: I hear something!
Sothe: Here you are.
Micaiah: Sothe!

Micaiah: Yune! I'm so glad you're both all right!
Sothe: Sorry it took so long to get here. Hello.
Aimee: Well, hello! I remember you. You've certainly grown up to be easy on the eyes! I believe I'm a little smitten.
Micaiah: You two know each other?
Sothe: Somewhat. We crossed paths during the war. Let's get out of here before the guards come. I'll open the door, then we'll find a way out.

???: I would like to get out of here, too. Like Aimee, I have no idea why I've been imprisoned. May I join you?
Micaiah: By all means!
???: I thank you much. My name is Kurth.
Micaiah: Well then, Kurth, after you.

Nolan: Sothe, this way!
Micaiah: Nolan! Edward! Leonardo! It's so good to see you all.
Sothe: How did you manage to sneak in this far without my help?
Nolan: Oddly, one of the soldiers let us in the back way.
Micaiah: A Begnion soldier?
Edward: Yes, he said, "If you're here to save Laura, follow me."
Laura: How strange. Why would a Begnion soldier mention me?
Mercenary: The prisoners are escaping!
Micaiah: Surprise, surprise! They found us!
Sothe: Micaiah, this is for you.
Micaiah: My tome! How did you get it?
Sothe: I didn't know if it was yours, but I figured you could use it. So at the armory, I "borrowed" it too.
Micaiah: Well done, Sothe. Now I can pull my weight and fight.
Sothe: And a staff for you, Sister.
Leonardo: Thank you very much.
Ilyana: Um... I... I can fight too. Could you...lend me that tome?
Sothe: What, you mean this one? Ilyana, I didn't know you used light magic, too.
Micaiah: Sothe, that's a tome of lightning magic.
Sothe: It is?
Micaiah: I give up. You just grabbed at random, didn't you?
Sothe: You know I can't read the old language. The letters all look the same to me! Here. If this one will work, take it. Just like old times, right, Ilyana?
Ilyana: Thank you... And yes, Sothe... I don't want to fight...but I'm glad I'll get to fight alongside you again...
Micaiah: Ilyana? If you're not up to it, don't feel pressured to fight. We can handle the soldiers. You look a little woozy. Are you sure you're going to be all right?
Aimee: She's fine, Micaiah. She's always like that.
Micaiah: But...
Ilyana: I can fight... I'm...very angry... The food here... It was terrible, and...they gave us hardly any... I...will have vengeance.
Micaiah: This girl takes her food pretty seriously. Interesting.
Sothe: I see Ilyana is as hungry as ever.
Aimee: Don't worry about us. We'll carefully tiptoe around you all. The boy and I can't fight, so we'll stay out of harm's way. Good luck, everyone!
Kurth: I am sorry to impose upon you. Please be careful.

@Recruit-Talk 
%Laura,Aran
Laura: Aran? I can't believe it! It IS you!
Aran: Laura!
Laura: I knew it! But, Aran, why? Why would any true Daein join sides with Begnion?
Aran: A true Daein? I'm not sure I still am one... Not since a family of merchants from Begnion took me in... But I could never do anything to hurt you. You've always been like a little sister to me. Get out of here, Laura ...while you still have a chance! I'll turn a blind eye.
Laura: But what about Micaiah and Sothe? They've risked their lives fighting for the abbot--and for me. I couldn't possibly abandon them now, not even if it meant saving myself.
Aran: Oh, bother...
Laura: What's wrong?
Aran: I can't keep lying to myself any longer. I know what Begnion is doing in Daein is despicable, and I can't support it.
Laura: Then...
Aran: Then...from now on, I'm fighting for what's right...just like the abbot taught us. Come on. Let's get you--and everyone else--out of here!
Laura: Wonderful! Thank you, Aran. I knew it. You haven't changed a bit. You're as considerate as ever. Your family would have been so proud!

@Boss
Burton: Ehhhh! You won't get away! I'll slice through you like a hot knife through cold butter!

Burton: Even if you run... There is no place...for you scum...to go...

%Micaiah,Burton
Burton: You! Crawl quietly back to your cell, and I'll spare you. More than that, however, I cannot promise.
Micaiah: Don't be so sure. This isn't our first fight, and it won't be our last.
Burton: A brave, yet foolish, sentiment. Before the might of the empire, you lowlifes are just cracked dirt beneath my boots!!

@End
Aimee: Thank you so much...all of you! Because of your bravery, I can finally rejoin my merchant caravan. Still, coming back to Nevassa, I'm stunned at the terrible state of things. Who would have thought that Begnion would rule with such an iron fist? They run your nation with boundless cruelty, looting the towns and sending your able-bodied men to camps. It breaks my heart.
Jorge: They make me miss Ashnard, Daein's late "Mad King." And I never thought I'd say that! At least he never tried to destroy Crimea as a country!
Micaiah: What do you mean by that?
Daniel: People make a country. One person--even a noble king--does not a country make. And a strong country only exists when its people are strong. As Begnion crushes the citizenry, it slowly destroys Daein.
Jorge: The dastards are treating Daein like a nation of slaves! If this persists, Daein's strength will be sapped, and the nation itself will cease to be.
Micaiah: Then, what should we do? What can we do to save our country?
Jorge: There is a rumor. If it's true, there might be hope...
Muston: Look here, Jorge! Don't go spouting off rumors.
Micaiah: No, I want to know! If there is a shred of hope for us, tell me.
Jorge: Well, the rumor is that King Ashnard left an orphan behind.
Micaiah: Really? Is that true?!
Sothe: King Ashnard had a child? Why have I never heard of this?
Daniel: It's just a rumor--nothing more. But if it's true, it would be a strike of great fortune for Daein.
Jorge: In the last war, Crimea used a scion of the royal family to unify its people and rally a liberation army. So could Daein.
Aimee: And drive out the loathsome Begnion!
Micaiah: So where is this orphan?
Jorge: According to rumor, he's in the east, near the Desert of Death, trying to raise an army to lay claim to the throne. Shall we go there?
Sothe: Micaiah, what do you think?
Micaiah: ...In the desert...an important encounter awaits us. It shall be one that changes the shape of our future.
Sothe: Well, that's it then. We must go to the desert to meet our destiny.

/***EOF***/
@Intro
Ike: The Daein army is working with Begnion? That's unexpected, to say the least...
Tibarn: Why would Daein join the war? I thought all their resources would be tied up in reconstruction.
Ranulf: Yeah, that bothers me too. There's something weird about all of this. Didn't Daein resent Begnion's occupation? Why would they be so quick to help out their former enemy?
Skrimir: Why does not matter. We are running out of time. We must deal with this quickly, if we are to get home.
Ike: General Skrimir! Have you recovered from your wounds already?
Skrimir: Yes. Do not underestimate the healing power of the beast tribe.
Tibarn: All right, everyone's here. Let's begin the meeting.
Ranulf: The immediate threat is the Daein army. They're dug in around the area that we'll have to use to cross the Ribahn. Maybe we can find another spot to cross?
Soren: No, we can't afford it. If we waste any more time, the Central Army will catch up to us. If that happens, we're dead.
Ike: Ranulf, tell me your impression of the Daein army. Anything special?
Ranulf: ...Well, there weren't very many of them, but their morale was really up there. Their commander seemed very clever, as well.
Soren: It must be the Maiden of Dawn.
Ike:  Who?
Soren: She was the hero of the recent Daein uprising. Micaiah is her name, if I recall correctly. Supposedly she has performed miracles and turned many losing battles into victories. An interesting figure.
Ranulf: Miracles? I'm finding that a bit hard to swallow. Are you sure about that?
Soren: Who knows? Personally, I doubt it. All I know is that the Daein army believes in her miracles, which makes her dangerous.
Soren: This Maiden of Dawn is supposed to be the savior of Daein, whose miraculous powers freed their people from tyranny. In other words, her followers are fanatics who see her as a goddess. She will make a formidable enemy.
Ranulf: If we attack them head-on, the fighting won't stop until one side is decimated. There's got to be a way to avoid that, right?
Titania: What about a decoy force, like we've used in the past?
Tibarn: The decoy only worked because the enemy didn't expect it. I wouldn't count on the same strategy working twice.
Soren: Not necessarily. The empire assumes superiority over all other countries. Begnion is only using the Daein army as a pawn to stop us, and likely won't care if it is destroyed in the process. As such, the Daein army is most likely uninformed about our past tactics.
Ranulf: You might have a point there. I went scouting after the fog cleared, and their forces looked really unprepared to fight us. They had no ballistae, and they hadn't fielded many fire mages. It felt like they didn't know a thing about fighting laguz.
Soren: Then we should definitely have a decoy force hit them head-on, while the bulk of the army crosses the river in the meantime.
Ike: I'll head up the decoy force, then. The armies of Gallia and Phoenicis can cross the river while we fight.
Ranulf: I'll go with you, Ike. Daein would get suspicious if they didn't see any laguz in the enemy force.
Tibarn: Sounds like a plan to me. Take some of my men as well, if you want. I don't want their talons getting dull.
Ranulf: The Laguz Alliance may have lost the war of might. But we haven't lost the war to save the lives of our brothers! This fight will be ours!
Skrimir: Yes! With the fangs and wings of the laguz and the knowledge of the beorc, we will return home!
Reyson: Daein cannot stop us now, just as they could not stop us during the Mad King's War. We can do this!

Sothe: The laguz failed to cross the river. This is their last chance to try. This time, they'll attack with beorc as well.
Micaiah: Sothe, you know what that means. If we end up fighting beorc...
Sothe: I know. We'll probably be fighting the Greil Mercenaries. I'm aware. It's not going to be pretty.
Micaiah: Sothe. Tell me more about Commander Ike.
Sothe: Why? You used to hate it when I said anything about him.
Micaiah: I want to know more about the man I'll be fighting against. What kind of a person is he?
Sothe: Well, let's see... He's generous. He doesn't care about petty things. He holds no prejudice against laguz, nor does he care about the opinions of the nobles. He's a master swordsman. He accomplishes everything he sets out to do. He's a true hero.
Micaiah: I see. He sounds...quite different from King Pelleas.
Sothe: Micaiah, they don't even compare. King Pelleas lacks any leadership or decision-making skills.
Micaiah: ...That may be, but I believe in King Pelleas. His heart is in the right place. I believe in his virtuous nature and his commitment to being a good king...
Sothe: Even though he would set you out on a war that doesn't involve Daein at all? A war of bigotry and hate, fighting on the same side as our real enemies? You're smarter than this, Micaiah.
Micaiah: Sothe, we've been through this. I know we're about to fight Ike and the Greil Mercenaries, but I...

Ike: It's time. Shall we?
Ranulf: Sigh... Those two are still here. So much for friendly advice, I guess. Now it's friends against friends... Things are getting crazy around here.

@Battle
Daein: The enemy is on the move. They're crossing the river! There are humans among the beasts!
Sothe: Here he comes.
Micaiah: Without the advantage of an ambush, this fight is sure to be tougher than our last one.

@Recruit-Talk 
%Reyson,Janaff
Reyson: Janaff? What are you doing here?
Janaff: H-hello! Nice to see you, Prince! What a coincidence, huh?! I'm just, um, taking a flight. At night. In a battlefield.
Reyson: ...Oh? I assumed Tibarn might have sent you to protect me.
Janaff: Oh, no, no! Nothing like that!
Reyson: Janaff. Do you really think you can hide anything from me.
Janaff: It... It was Ike! Ike asked me to help out the Greil Mercenaries! Really!
Reyson: Mm-hm.
Janaff: You see, Your Highness, the enemy might get suspicious if there were no birds among the force!
Reyson: Ah, that's a good point. Now I understand. My apologies for jumping to conclusions.
Janaff: No worries, Your Highness... Ha ha...ha...
Reyson: Then let us go together to Ike and seek his next command!
Janaff: What?! Whoa, hold up there!
Reyson: What's the problem? I thought you were here to help.
Janaff: Oh, hey, no problem at all, Your Highness. No problem whatsoever!
Reyson: Excellent. Let's go.
Janaff: Perfect... Tibarn's gonna have my beak for this...

%Ike,Ulki
Ike: Ulki! What are you doing here?
Ulki: Orders of the king. I am here to assist you.
Ike: Oh, I get it. You're here to guard Reyson.
Ulki: Shh! Ike, please! I cannot let the prince hear about this! Please pretend that I'm only here to assist you, I beg of you.
Ike: Sure, that's fine with me. Whatever your reasons, I appreciate the help. Thanks!
Ulki: Don't mention it.

%Ike,Janaff
Ike: Janaff? What are you doing here?
Janaff: Oh, hey, Ike. Don't mind me. I'm just, um, getting some air.
Ike: Hm. Right. And here I was, assuming you were here to guard Reyson.
Janaff: Shhh! Not so loud! You can't let the White Prince know why I'm here!
Ike: I know, I know. I'm just giving you a hard time.
Janaff: Then help me! Hey, how about this? I'll join the Greil Mercenaries!
Ike: Sounds great to me. Free labor is always welcome.

%Reyson,Ulki 
Reyson: Ulki. Why are you here?
Ulki: King's orders. I'm here to assist.
Reyson: Oh, I see. It's that thing about having some birds in the decoy force, correct?
Ulki: Of course, Your Highness. Just so.
Reyson: Good. I'm sure Ike is glad to have your help. We'll be counting on you, Ulki.
Ulki: I shall do my best.

%Lethe,Zihark
Lethe: Zihark!
Zihark: Lethe...
Lethe: You defeated me last time, but this time it’ll be different. Prepare yourself!
Zihark: You won’t surrender?
Lethe: I am a soldier. I will fight to my death.
Zihark: ... I knew you’d say that. Then I’m coming with you. I’m at your service, Lethe. Just like old times, yeah?
Lethe: What?! Why?
Zihark: The Daein soldiers call this war “the sub-human hunt.” You know I hate that word. I believed that Daein would change. Or at least I used to. But now... I just can’t stand by. This war is the last straw. I can’t fight for Daein anymore.
Lethe: ... You may not have claws, but I think your soul is more laguz than beorc. Welcome to our tribe, Zihark.

%Mordecai,Zihark 
Mordecai: You, I know...
Zihark: Mordecai... I never expected us to meet like this, on opposite sides...
Mordecai: Ah! Zee... eehark! Hm... No, that not it. Sorry, Mordecai says your name not right. Not right yet.
Zihark: But...
Mordecai: Zeehork? Zeeehar-ack? Zi...hark? Ahh! That is good! Zi-hark!
Zihark: Mordecai... Don’t you understand? We’re now–
Mordecai: I know. Mordecai is your friend. Allies we are. It does not matter who we fight for.
Zihark: But–
Mordecai: You have no fang or tail, but you are a beast brother, Zee-hark! Hmm... No. Mordecai forgets again. Sorry.
Zihark: Hey, don’t worry about it. I’ve got it! I’ll go with you. That way, you’ll get my name right in no time.
Mordecai: Ah! Good idea! Mordecai likes this idea.

%Ilyana,Zihark 
Ilyana: Sir Zihark. It’s not too late. Let’s not fight.
Zihark: I can’t do that... Daein has just freed itself. I can’t betray it now.
Ilyana: Even if you have been ordered by Daein to hunt down laguz?
Zihark: I-I just...
Ilyana: But this isn’t you! When I met you, you were so nice, and you never doubted yourself or your friends. You even risked your own life to fight on behalf of the laguz. And now you’re throwing it all away...
Zihark: ... Ilyana.
Ilyana: Yes?
Zihark: Thank you. You’ve opened my eyes.
Ilyana: Pardon?
Zihark: I will leave the Daein army. My friends in Daein are dear to me, but I refuse to take part in any “hunt,” or lie to myself any longer.
Ilyana: Oh, Zihark, I’m so glad...

%Brom,Zihark 
Brom: Huh? Well, hey there, Zihark! Long time no see!
Zihark: Brom...
Brom: Ah, it sure is great to see ya! You’re looking mighty fine. Seem a bit sad, though.
Zihark: Oh, I’m all right, Brom. How’s the family?
Brom: Oh, they’re doin’ great. We had ourselves some troubles, but Queen Elincia took care of it. Ah, speakin’ of my family! About your engagement to one of my daughters... Have you given it any extra thought? All my daughters are eager to marry. Just say the word, now!
Zihark: What? All of your daughters? You told all of your daughters about me?
Brom: Ah, they’re all such dears! I can’t favor one over the others, can I? So, what do you say? My second daughter is startin’ to look a lot like me! Nice, soft cheeks.
Zihark: Um, well, I thought I was pretty clear on this the last time we went over it...
Brom: She left for Daein to see you. Have you run into her yet? Her name’s Meg. Nice girl. She looks a lot like me.
Zihark: You haven’t changed at all, Brom. You’re still the same good man that I remember from three years ago. I’m really glad I ran into you, Brom. Now I remember what I was fighting for back then. And now I know what I have to do.
Brom: Hm? What’re you goin’ on about, son?
Zihark: I’m leaving the Daein army. My friends in Daein are dear to me, but I refuse to turn my sword against the laguz any longer.

@Recruit-Battle
Zihark: I'm sorry. I didn't want us to meet again like this. Forgive me.

Zihark: I use my sword for Daein... But am I really fighting for Daein here? What am I doing...

%Ike,Zihark
Zihark: Ike...
Ike: It's been a while, Zihark. So, you're with Daein?
Zihark: Yep. This is weird, Ike. I never thought we'd meet again as enemies...
Ike: It's the nature of being a mercenary. No hard feelings, Zihark. Any chance you could convince the Daein army to retreat?
Zihark: I wish. It's too complicated right now. Too many politicians playing around.
Ike: I see... I'm not much for politics. All I do is live by my principles, my sword, and my friends. What can I say? I won't change who I am, even if it means fighting you.
Zihark: That's fine by me. You're still the man I knew from the Mad King's War. It's about time I also threw away my doubts...

@Battle
Zihark: The Greil Mercenaries... They really are here. There's no way we can win this. Sorry, guys. I'm turning back for now. I really suggest you all retreat as well.

Jill: My friends... It grieves me to meet again under these circumstances.

@Recruit-Talk 
%Haar,Jill
Jill: Sir Haar! Why are you fighting for these people?!
Haar: Hey, you stole my question! Why are you fighting in the Daein army?
Jill: There was a war to liberate Daein while you were gone. So I joined the army again.
Haar: Well, it looks like you did a good job. Daein has been liberated. So why are you still with the army?
Jill: I can't just leave! These people are my friends!
Haar: Oh, stop with the sentimental nonsense, Jill. In case you haven't noticed, you're fighting your friends, too.
Jill: What about you, then? How did you end up in this fight?
Haar: Well... Somehow, I got mixed up in putting down uprisings in Crimea. And then I ended up with the Laguz Alliance because...you know, being old friends with Ike and all that.
Jill: What?! That is hardly a cause worth fighting for!! You're unbelievable!
Haar: All right, enough debating. What do you want to do now? Do you want to fight me?
Jill: Of course not! I could never...
Haar: Then join me.
Jill: Easy for you to say!
Haar: You're full of doubt. How do you live like that all the time? Is that how your father wanted you to live? Afraid to trust your own instincts?
Jill: But...
Haar: Daein has no business in this war. You know that, right?
Jill: But...what about my comrades? What about my friends?
Haar: Is dying how you show loyalty? If you're really their friend, then fight alongside us! Maybe that will get them to think about what they're doing.
Jill: Oh, Captain...
Haar: Come with me, Jill. We both know that we should follow our hearts, even if it makes us traitors. We know that better than anyone. For the sake of your father, live your life without shame.
Jill: Y-you're right, Captain Haar! I've been so foolish. Just as before. I would be proud to serve with you. And...Captain Haar? Thank you. Thank you so much...

%Mist,Jill
Mist: Jill! I can’t believe it! It is you!
Jill: Oh, Mist...
Mist: I’m so glad to see you!
Jill: Wh-what?
Mist: Well, I was wondering about what to do if I saw you here with the Daein army. I had it all worked out, you see? And, well, here you are! It’s great!
Jill: Mist. We’re enemies now.
Mist: No, you have to listen, Jill. Let’s not fight. There’s a really easy solution to this whole mess!
Jill: But... what?
Mist: Just listen! It’s so simple! Since Daein shouldn’t be in this war, they shouldn’t be here right now, right? And you and I are friends, right? So we can each pretend that the other one of us isn’t here! Isn’t that great?
Jill: Mist, that makes absolutely no sense. Besides, that’s no the issue here! You’re a mercenary. You know how th–
Mist: We’re not fighting. That’s final.
Jill: Mist?!
Mist: Jill, you’d never turn your weapon against me. I just know it. I trust you, because you’re my friend.
Jill: Oh, Mist... All right, that’s it. I’ve had enough of this.
Mist: Jill?
Jill: You made my last doubts fade away. I’ve made my decision. I’m not fighting in the Daein army anymore. I’m joining back up with you.
Mist: Jill! I knew you’d come around!
Jill: I feel bad for my comrades in Daein, but I’m going to stand by what I believe. I will not be ashamed anymore.
Mist: That’s the Jill I know and love!
Jill: Thank you, Mist!

@Recruit-Battle
%Ike,Jill
Ike: Jill? You're back with the Daein army?
Jill: I know I owe you all so much... And Mist would grieve if you fell. But I cannot retreat. I must stand my ground!
Ike: Fine. Do what you have to do. Since neither side can retreat, we will fight. And, Jill...I'm sorry it came to this.
Jill: ...I am too, Commander Ike. Are you ready?

%Ilyana,Zihark
Ilyana: Hello, Sir Zihark.
Zihark: Ilyana... You’re on their side, too?
Ilyana: And you stand with the enemy...
Zihark: I don’t know why, but it feels like you’ve been in my life longer than the others. I couldn’t handle it if you got hurt. Ilyana, please pull back before something awful happens. I beg of you.
Ilyana: Oh, Zihark...

%Ilyana,Jill
Jill: Ilyana? You’re with the Laguz Alliance? No, I mean the Greil Mercenaries?
Ilyana: Yes. Muston and the others are with me, too.
Jill: I see... We fought together in Ashnard’s War, and in the war to liberate Daein. We didn’t spend much time together, but you were a trustworthy comrade.
Ilyana: Thank you... I wonder why we’re here. Why is Daein attacking us?
Jill: I don’t know. The occupation soldiers left Daein. But Daein still cannot refuse a request from Begnion. Liberation was only a dream.
Ilyana: Yet you continue to stay with the Daein army? Why do you do that to yourself?
Jill: Because I can’t abandon my comrades.

%Lethe,Jill
Lethe: Jill! We’re crossing the river this time!
Jill: I’m sorry, Lethe. I have to fight. I will do anything for my country...

@Character-Falls
Jill: They're so strong... Even stronger than three years ago. Lady Micaiah, I apologize. I must head back for now.

Fiona: Most impressive! I cannot fight with a wound like this. I'll be back shortly...

Meg: Oww! Sorry, y'all. I'm turnin' back for now.

Aran: Be careful! They're much stronger than any of the foes we've encountered! They defeated me, as well... I'm falling back temporarily.

Laura: Oh no, is this...blood? I'm sorry, Lady Micaiah. I must heal my wounds.

Edward: Ugh...! My ribs... Sorry, Micaiah. I've gotta fall back!

Leonardo: We're totally outclassed in this battle. This is insane. Micaiah, I'm sorry. I have to turn back for now...

Nolan: Blast! They're better than I expected! I'm sorry, Micaiah. I need to turn back for a while.

Black Knight: Stand aside. You are no match for me.

@Battle-Talk 
%Reyson,Micaiah
Reyson: Micaiah, the Maiden of Dawn ... Is that what they call you?
Micaiah: Who are you? Your wings look just like Rafiel’s.
Reyson: I am Reyson. My brother told me about you. This is why I’m here. Please pull back your troops. Our enemy is not Daein. This is not your fight. Am I not correct?
Micaiah: I know how you feel... Though I owe a debt to Rafiel, I cannot do what you ask. It’s not that I don’t want to! I think this whole war is madness! But I must keep fighting.
Reyson: Why is that?
Micaiah: This fight is my king’s will. I cannot stop fighting just because I don’t agree with him. If we don’t pull together under our new king, Daein will fall apart again, just as it did before its liberation. I believe in King Pelleas. I believe that our king will lead the people of Daein to happiness
Reyson: ...I see. I understand your position. Please accept my apology for asking the impossible
Micaiah: What? What do you mean?
Reyson: You are fighting to protect your beliefs. I understand that now. But remember that we also cannot, and will not, pull back. We both carry a heavy burden. that’s why we’re here.
Micaiah: Yes...

%Brom,Meg
Brom: Meg? Is it you, sweetie?
Meg: Daddy... Daddy!
Brom: There, there. Don’t cry, darlin’. I’m just glad you’re safe! What a mess we’re in, huh? But, that’s war, I reckon. In any case... There’s no way I could ever fight my own daughter. You run along now.

%Zihark,Meg
Zihark: Meg.
Meg: Sir Zihark? Wh-what’s wrong? What’s going on?
Zihark: I’m sorry, but I’m joining up with the alliance. I don’t want to betray you, but I can’t fight for Daein any longer.
Meg: No! Wh-what are you saying?
Zihark: I know this is a horrible thing for me to say, but listen. Please leave the battlefield. I don’t want to see you get hurt.
Meg: Sir Zihark! But... you can’t leave me here alone!
Zihark: I wanted to tell you that. I have to go. I’m so sorry, Meg...
Meg: Sir... Zihark...

@Recruit-Battle 
%Ranulf,Black Knight
Ranulf: Oh, I thought I smelled you earlier. We just have to stop meeting like this.
Black Knight: ...
Ranulf: Back in Gallia, in Crimea... We just ran into each other recently, too. I don't know about the others, but I can tell who you are. You have one heck of a stench.
Black Knight: ...Enough talk. Prepare yourself.
Ranulf: Still won't own up, huh? Fine. If that's the case, I'll just tear your mask off and show everyone myself!

%Ike,Black Knight
Ike: So, you are alive. Somehow, I knew it wasn't over yet.
Black Knight: Of course it wasn't over. You were a boy trying to live up to the memory of the greatest swordsman in history.
Ike: And yet, I was the one who walked out of the castle that day.
Black Knight: You have your father to thank for that. When you told me that he had crippled himself, I realized that I had never fought him at all, merely his shadow.
Ike: What are you getting at?
Black Knight: I saw immediately that you were not your father's equal, but that one day you might be. So I did the only thing I could to keep you alive... I let you win.
Ike: ...You did, didn't you? I've relived that fight so many times... How could I not have seen it before?
Black Knight: You were not yet capable of seeing it. But I had to let you live, so that you could continue to train and perhaps one day be worthy of Gawain's legacy. My armor's blessing is gone; let us see if that day is today.
Ike: I promise you that it will be. Begin.

@Recruit-Battle
Sothe: You should run. I'm not the weak child you remember.

@Battle-Talk 
%Ike,Sothe
Sothe: Commander Ike!
Ike: Look at you, Sothe. You've grown a lot. I almost forgot... You're originally from Daein.
Sothe: I'm glad you remembered. I hope it helps explain why I'm here.
Ike: Did you find the person you were looking for?
Sothe: Yes. She commands this army.
Ike: The Maiden of Dawn?
Sothe: Please don't call her by that ridiculous name. Her name is Micaiah.
Ike: I see.
Sothe: Commander, I... I didn't want to see you like this.
Ike: But you don't intend to retreat, do you?
Sothe: That's right.
Ike: Sothe, before you challenge me, you better be ready never to see that girl again. Can you handle that?
Sothe: Wh-what?!
Ike: If you can't, stay away from me. You'll get no mercy, despite our past. I'm sorry, Sothe, but the choices we've both made have brought us to this. There's no turning back now. 
Sothe: I understand, Commander. And to answer your question... Yes, sir, I can handle that. Whenever you're ready, Commander.

@Recruit-Battle 
%Ike,Sothe
Sothe: Commander, we can't retreat. We have to keep fighting, even if I have to fight you...
Ike: Sothe, you've already lost this fight.
Sothe: What do you mean by that?
Ike: you don't think you can win against me, so you won't. Going into a battle with that kind of doubt, you'll lose for sure. Just think of me as an enemy soldier to be cut down.

%Ilyana,Sothe
Ilyana: Hello, Sothe...
Sothe: If you’re here with the Greil Mercenaries, does that mean the caravan is with you, too?
Ilyana: Yes. Everyone is back together. Why don’t you join us? You should bring Micaiah, of course. Everyone is worried about you two...
Sothe: I’m sorry, I can’t...
Ilyana: I see... I’m sorry, Sothe.

%Jill,Sothe
Sothe: Jill! What are you doing?!
Jill: I’m sorry. I just don’t believe that Daein is in the right this time. Retreat now, Sothe. Daein has no business getting involved in this war.
Sothe: I can’t do that. Micaiah has made up her mind, and I’ll follow her no matter what. Even if I have to fight you.
Jill: Then I’ll be forced to stop you! Prepare yourself, Sothe!

%Zihark,Sothe
Sothe: I understand. I thought that fighting against the laguz would set you off.
Zihark: I won’t make any excuses. I’m finished with the new Daein.
Sothe: You chose principles over country and comrades. I can’t blame you for that.
Zihark: But these people are my comrades! Look around you, Sothe! These people aren’t your enemies, they’re your friends!
Sothe: Let’s get on with this. I’m with Daein. You’re with the Laguz Alliance. There’s only one thing to do when enemies meet.
Zihark: I won’t go easy on you. I respect you too much for that!

@Recruit-Battle
Sothe: Unh... Micaiah, I'm sorry.
Micaiah: Sothe? No! Sothe, please! Hold on, I'm coming over to you!
Sothe: Don't worry... I won't die so easily. I'll stay by your side.
Micaiah: Thank goodness you're all right! But, Sothe, go back and rest. You can't fight with a gaping wound like that... Promise me that you'll go back and get some rest.
Sothe: ...Fine.

@Boss
Micaiah: Just as you have a reason to fight, so do we.

@Battle-Talk 
%Reyson,Micaiah
Reyson: Micaiah, the Maiden of Dawn... Is that what they call you?
Micaiah: Who are you? Your wings look just like Rafiel's.
Reyson: I am Reyson. My brother told me about you. That is why I'm here. Please pull back your troops. Our enemy is not Daein. This is not your fight. Am I not correct?
Micaiah: I know how you feel... Though I owe a debt to Rafiel, I cannot do what you ask. It's not that I don't want to! I think this whole war is madness! But I must keep fighting.
Reyson: Why is that?
Micaiah: This fight is my king's will. I cannot stop fighting just because I don't agree with him. If we don't pull together under our new king, Daein will fall apart again, just as it did before its liberation. I believe in King Pelleas. I believe that our king will lead the people of Daein to happiness.
Reyson: ...I see. I understand your position. Please accept my apology for asking the impossible.
Micaiah: What? What do you mean?
Reyson: You are fighting to protect your beliefs. I understand that now. But remember that we also cannot, and will not, pull back. We both carry a heavy burden. That's why we're here.
Micaiah: Yes...

%Ilyana,Micaiah
Ilyana: Oh...
Micaiah: Ilyana! I remember now... You said that you were a member of the Greil Mercenaries in Ashnard’s War.
Ilyana: Yes.
Micaiah: I’m sorry.
Ilyana: Let’s not do this. Please?
Micaiah: What?
Ilyana: Let’s not fight.
Micaiah: If that means letting the Laguz Alliance get by us, I cannot agree to it.
Ilyana: I see... That’s too bad.
Micaiah: How is everyone in the caravan?
Ilyana: They’re fine.
Micaiah: I’m glad to hear that.
Ilyana: Maybe... we should fight.
Micaiah: What?
Ilyana: We’re enemies now. We can’t stand here and try to have a normal conversation. It’s too strange...
Micaiah: Ilyana...
Ilyana: It’ll be all right. I’m really strong against your spells, and my magic is not powerful enough to defeat you. We’ll be fine.
Micaiah: But if we’re equally matched, why should we fight at all? It sounds... wrong.
Ilyana: Of course it’s wrong! The fact that we’re fighting is all wrong! We don’t even dislike each other!
Micaiah: ...
Ilyana: Let’s just fight and pretend like this conversation never took place.

%Jill,Micaiah
Jill: Lady Micaiah!
Micaiah: Jill...
Jill: Lady Micaiah... I cannot continue to fight for Daein. It’s all gone wrong. I’m here to tell you that... This is good-bye. I must part ways with you.
Micaiah: I... see.
Jill: I am joining the Laguz Alliance. But it’s not because I want to fight the Daein army.
Micaiah: Jill, I don’t understand...
Jill: Please retreat! There is no reason for Daein to get involved in this war. You know that better than anyone, Lady Micaiah! This is madness!
Micaiah: I can’t do that.
Jill: ...Very well. I will not give up hope. I’ll stand before you as many times as it takes. I will get you to leave this fight.
Micaiah: Jill...

%Zihark,Micaiah
Micaiah: Zihark...
Zihark: As you can see, I’m with the Laguz Alliance now. I can’t lie to myself anymore, Micaiah. I’m sorry.
Micaiah: I see...
Zihark: Tell me, Micaiah. Why did Daein become an enemy of the laguz? Daein has a new king now. Why can’t it escape the grip of Begnion?!
Micaiah: I don’t know, Zihark. I wish I did. I’m sorry...
Zihark: No, I’m the one who should be sorry. I know this isn’t your fault. It’s just that... now I wonder if the time I’ve spent fighting to liberate Daein was well spent. It makes me sad.
Micaiah: Will you cut me down?
Zihark: That depends on you, Micaiah. Will you try to kill me?
Micaiah: You are an enemy of Daein now. But... I... How could I? How could I possibly kill you?
Zihark: I feel the same way. I couldn’t possibly hurt you. However, fighting laguz is something I will not do for anyone. Where do we go from here?
Micaiah: I... I don’t know...

@Recruit-Battle 
Micaiah: My wounds... They're nothing! They're nothing compare to what my people have suffered! We won't lose! We'll never give up!

%Ike,Micaiah
Micaiah: You're...
Ike: Hello.
Micaiah: You must be Ike, of the Greil Mercenaries.
Ike: And you're the Maiden of Dawn, Micaiah?
Micaiah: I feel like I know you already. Maybe it's because Sothe has told me so much about you.
Ike: I hate to do this to Sothe, but if you stand before me as my enemy, you'll get no mercy from me.
Micaiah: ...Good. I prefer it that way. Prepare yourself!

%Soren,Micaiah
Soren: ...Ah, that explains quite a bit about the stories that surround you.
Micaiah: Who are you? You're... You're just like me!
Soren: Yes, they call our kind the Branded. As the years pass, I understand better and better how others see us.
Micaiah: You are so...cold. It's like you're cloaked in frost. Is there even blood in your veins?
Soren: There is. Blood very similar to yours, in fact. Blood that teaches us what it means to be rejected and alone.
Micaiah: Your heart is frozen, but I feel a warm core trying to melt through that ice. I see... You have someone you cherish very much. Someone you rely on.
Soren: Do not presume to understand me, you ridiculous girl. You have no idea who I am and what I can do. None at all. Daein has no business in this war. I will defeat you swiftly and send you and your army back to Daein.
Micaiah: I finally meet my own kind, and he is an enemy... ...I will not retreat. I won't let you go any further!

@End
Ulki: ...Janaff. The king is calling us.
Janaff: Hmm, right. Good! Looks like we did it! Ike! The main force has crossed the river. We did it!
Ike: Excellent. Everyone, push through! Let's meet up with the main force!

Daein: The beast soldiers are behind us! We're being attacked from behind!
Sothe: The Gallians?! How did they cross the river?!
Daein: It's not just the beasts! There are hundreds of hawks, as well!
Micaiah: Even the hawk tribe is here? The Begnion army never told us that they had moved out...
Sothe: ...They got us. Commander Ike's force was just a decoy.
Micaiah: Staying will only increase casualties. Let's retreat.
Daein: No, Maiden! We can still fight! Please give us your orders!
Micaiah: I have. We shall retreat! I will not let all of you die in vain!
Begnion: But...
Sothe: General's orders. We kept our losses to a minimum. That's enough for this battle.
Daein: Yes, sir! 
Sothe: Micaiah, I'm surprised. This is the first time you couldn't predict the enemy's movement.
Micaiah: ...You're right. 

Sothe: Micaiah?! What's wrong?!
Micaiah: Sothe, don't... Just act...normal. Everyone...is watching...


Pelleas: What? Micaiah failed to eradicate the Laguz Alliance?! No!
Lekain: Hmm, this looks bad, King Pelleas. Is this how the people of Daein repay Begnion for all the kindness it has offered them? I'm afraid Daein and the senate's friendly relationship stops here.
Pelleas: P-please, wait! Give me one more chance, I beg of you!
Lekain: Well, well... Since you begged, I suppose... I will consider it.
Pelleas: Please, just listen... Daein remains loyal to the senate. We will carry out any task give to us. Your whim is our command. Just, please give us another chance!
Lekain: Very well. We shall overlook your failure this one time. But only once. Farewell, young king of Daein.
???: Pelleas...
Pelleas: ...Mother!
Almedha: That man you were speaking with... He is a senator from Begnion, correct? Duke Lekain of Gaddos, I believe? He was here before as part of the empire's inspection team. He came in Duke Persis's stead.
Pelleas: Yes. You are quite right, Mother. That was Vice-Minister Lekain of Begnion. So you saw us together...
Almedha: Tell Mother what happened. You look absolutely terrified. Does that man have something on you? Is he trying to hurt you? It's all right to tell your mother th--
Pelleas: No. It's quite all right, Mother. We were talking about the future of our two countries, and how we might...repair our relationship.
Almedha: But--
Pelleas: Please go back to your room. I shall go rest as well. I find myself very tired of late. 
Almedha: Pelleas... Wait! Oh, my son...

@Narration
The diversion created by the Greil Mercenaries allows the Laguz Alliance to slip successfully past the Daein army's blockade.
Yet General Zelgius and his Central Army show no mercy and continue their relentless pursuit of the Laguz Alliance. The weakened alliance is forced to a hard choice: they must pass through the northern edge of the Serenes forest. From there, they will try to make their way to a hidden road that will lead them out of Begnion and back to Gallia.

@Conversation 
Ranulf: So, it happens to be that I have a very rare and precious item in my possession. Which one of you thinks you deserve a gift?
Lyre: Ooo, me! Me! I want it!
Kyza: No, Captain! You should give it to me! After all, I’m your faithful servant.
Lyre: What!? No way! That stuffy know-it-all doesn’t need it! Look at me! I’m so tiny and helpless, I need all the help I can get. You wouldn’t want me to get hurt, would you?
Kyza: A stuffy know-it-all?! Oh, I say! How dare you, madam!? Captain Ranulf! You know that rewarding her behavior will only encourage her to act up in front of others! Have I not always followed your orders without question, both quickly and effectively?
Ranulf: All right, all right... Sheesh. You know, I personally don’t really care which of you gets it.
Lyre: You hold it right there, Kyza! I think you just called me a brat!
Kyza: Pfft. I’m only stating the obvious. If you don’t like it, don’t act so childish.
Lyre: Hmph! You stuck-up old alley cat!
Kyza: Stuck up?! Your mother would be ashamed at your lack of manners!
Ranulf: Argh! Stop already! I’m sorry I asked. Obviously I have to make the decision for you. All right, Kyza! This is yours. Take it.
Kyza: Oh, thank you! Thank you! You’ve made me the happiest person in the army, Captain! Hah!
Lyre: What!? Why!? Why did you give it to him!?
Ranulf: He’s your commanding officer.
Lyre: That’s not fair! He’s a stuffy old bore! And I’m wearing my prettiest collar...
Kyza: Forget it, Lyre. The captain knows who slaves day and night to keep the army running smoothly!
Lyre: No, no, no! The captain’s love is mine! All mine! Give it to me!
Kyza: If you want it, you’ll have to take it!
Lyre: Oh, you’re dead!
Ranulf: What is it with you two? Sigh...
/***EOF***/
@Intro
Elincia: I see... So, that's what's going on. Thank you for bringing it to my attention. I'm very sorry your village was affected by this. You have my sincere apologies.
Brom: Oh, no, Your Majesty. We don't need no apology. We're just happy we could help.
Geoffrey: Lucia... Brom's story confirms what we've suspected all along.
Lucia: Yes, as we thought. Duke Ludveck of Felirae is firing up a rebellion. We should have seen it coming. To be honest, Queen Elincia, there have been a number of indications that something like this was under way. We'd hoped to uncover something more tangible than hushed rumors... I should have told you sooner.
Elincia: No... I bear some responsibility as well. The discontent among the populace...is due to my lack of experience as a ruler. Now that a rebellion is gaining momentum, innocent blood will surely be spilled...


Elincia: I have always held the well-being of the Crimean people as my highest priority... I've done my utmost in Crimea's name. ...And all I've ever desired is a country where war and hunger are unknown.

Brom: Beggin' your pardon, Queen Elincia.
Elincia: ...Yes, Brom?
Brom: Your Majesty is doin' a bang-up job of it. This country's a safe place to live, and that's more than most can say! Once you get the hang of things, I'm sure you'll be the name future kings and queens try to live up to. We know you can do it!
Nephenee: And it ain't like ALL the young bucks out there got bees in their bonnets! There's a whole mess o' folk doin' their darnedest to make this a fine country. They wanna make you proud, Your Majesty.
Elincia: I... Thank you.
Geoffrey: All nations experience unrest when the reins of leadership change hands. It's true the world over. But for Ludveck to start beating the drums of war as if this were unheard of... What utter nonsense! We must not allow it! Your Majesty, would you be so kind as to appoint me to the task of his capture? I myself will march into Felirae and seize Ludveck and his rebels.
Lucia: No, Geoffrey. We can't do that. Unfortunately, we don't have enough evidence to arrest him.
Geoffrey: But...
Lucia: Don't worry, Brother. If we have no evidence, then I suppose we'll have to dig some up. Your Majesty, I'd like to take on that job.
Elincia: Lucia, I appreciate your dedication. You have my permission to proceed...

Ludveck: Well, well... My dear Lady Lucia. Quite a way from home, aren't we?
Lucia: Please do excuse the sudden visit, Your Grace. Princess Leanne, Lady Lethe... This is Lord Ludveck, duke of Felirae. I was thinking that our laguz guests might enjoy the fine fruits this region is known for. We've traveled quite a long way... I hope it won't be too much trouble.
Ludveck: Don't be ridiculous! I could be nothing but delighted by a visit from you, Lady Lucia. Although I must admit... I would be all the more pleased if you had come such a long way just to see me.
Lucia:  ...You are too kind, Lord Ludveck.
Ludveck: Please, feel free to take your ease. You are welcome to stay in Felirae as long as you desire.

Lucia: ...This is it! This document is an order written by Ludveck himself, marked with his signal. If we show this to the royal assembly, we'll surely have the backing to indict him. Thank you so much...both of you. We have to quell this uprising before things get out of hand.
Mordecai: If there is no war, we are happy. But if there is war, it is good we came.
Lethe: Ludveck is poor prey. He hides behind a shield of words, not realizing that words can be seen through.
Lucia: Yes, and that's quite fortunate for us. But we still have to get out of here without being detected.
???: M-my lady! You mustn't raise your voice...
Lucia: Who's there?! Show yourself!
???: ...

Lucia: Princess Leanne! Sir Nealuchi! I thought you had returned to the royal palace... What in the world are you doing here?!
Nealuchi: Oh ho ho... Forgive us... We just couldn't help but be concerned for you.
Leanne: ...
Lucia: Well, what can I say? This just means we'll have to be even more careful to get out of here safely.
Mordecai: ...Someone is coming.
Lucia: Guards? This cave has only one exit... I guess that means we do this the hard way. We've obtained enough evidence to indict Ludveck, so there's no point in sticking around. Let's go!

@Boss
Maraj: As I expected. The queen's house pets are playful little pups indeed. The only thing your sniffing about will get you, however, is an abruptly shortened life span!

Maraj: To associate with beasts like you... One has to wonder where the queen acquired such a lack of taste.

Maraj: My death...means nothing... Our plan...is perfect... There is... nothing...nothing the queen...can do...

%Lucia,Maraj
Maraj: Well, look what we have here... Lady Lucia and her pack of curs. How interesting. What cause could you have for roaming the grounds at night, hmm?
Lucia: Cause? Why, we've merely lost our way.
Maraj: Is that so? In that case, I will gladly escort you back to the castle.
Lucia: That's quite all right. We should be going home. But please do give Lord Ludveck a message... Tell him that his revolt will never succeed!
Maraj: ...Tsk tsk. I did try to warn Lord Ludveck, but it seems that he is quite fond of you. If he knew of your little discovery... I'm certain he would have no qualms about eliminating you.

@End
Lucia: This way!


Lucia: As we suspected, Lord Ludveck is intent on rebellion. His followers are spread across the land, inciting insurrection. We have the documents to prove it.
Geoffrey: Queen Elincia, I stand ready to defend the realm! I will lead the Royal Knights into Felirae, and we will seize the duke!
Elincia: I am hesitant to resort to the sword without at least attempting diplomacy. At all costs, I must stop the people of Crimea from fighting one another.
Crimea: Your Majesty! News from the countryside! Duke Ludveck has assembled an army and announced his intentions against you! The rebellion in Felirae is growing quickly!
Elincia: I see...
Lucia: He must have realized that his operations were no longer a secret. Your Majesty, we have no time to waste. We must stand against this, for the future of Crimea!
Elincia: ...I understand. Geoffrey, leader of the Royal Knights... I hereby authorize the use of military force against the rebel army!
Geoffrey: Yes, Your Majesty. At once! 
Lucia: I will begin marshalling forces. This rebellion must be stopped...before nobles in surrounding areas catch wind of it. 
Elincia: ...Am I doing the right thing? Oh, Father... Uncle Renning...

Elincia: Welcome back, Marcia. Did you learn of Sir Ike's whereabouts?
Marcia: No... I'm sorry. I've got nothing but sore feet and a tired pegasus. I've talked to a few local villagers who say the Greil Mercenaries have been working low-paying odd jobs here and there. Nobody seems to know where they are now, but everyone agrees that this is the first time they've been gone for so long.
Leanne: ...
Elincia: Princess Leanne, please try to keep your spirits high. I assure you, we will continue to investigate Sir Ike's whereabouts.
Leanne: Th-thank...you.
Elincia: Oh! Princess Leanne! You spoke?!
Nealuchi: Quite a shock, yes? My lady has been studying your language, which we often call "modern speech."
Elincia: That's wonderful! It's hard enough visiting a strange land, let alone learning the languages.
Leanne:  Me...not big...no pr-problem. Queen Elincia has tr-trouble...heart.
Elincia: Ah... I'd forgotten. The heron tribe can peer into the heart. I can't hide the pain I'm feeling... At least not from you, Princess Leanne.
Leanne: Queen... El...Elincia.
Elincia: ...Why does this happen?! My people fight, brother against brother... And no matter what I do, I can't stop it! I'm a miserable failure. I just want to crawl into a cave somewhere. How can anyone believe in me now?



Elincia: I never asked for any of this... I never wanted to be queen!
Leanne:  ...
Elincia: ...Sniff... I can't... I can't do it anymore...

@Narration
Insurrection erupts across Crimea. The wounds Crimea suffered during the conflict with Daein have finally begun to heal, and it should be rejoicing in its hard-won peace. How is it that the fires of rebellion have been lit?
Bastian, Queen Elincia's most trusted advisor, widely acknowledged for his political savvy, is on a mission to Daein, and the Greil Mercenaries, the original authors of Crimea's recovery, are nowhere to be found.
Queen Elincia, close to despair, has nonetheless ordered the Crimean Royal Knights to restore order in Felirae. Her only wish is to win the coming battle, so that she may stave off a civil war.

@Conversation 
Heather: Awww... I really wanted to go to the palace. I would've been happy with just a tiny little glance at Queen Elincia. She's... glorious. This is so unfair!
Brom: Yup, it's the pits. But that queen of ours is a real nice lady. Knowin' her, she'd prob'ly just let ya talk to 'er, noble or not.
Heather: The nerve of that Duke Ludveck! He ruined my one chance to meet the queen. I won't stand for it! He needs a kick in the rear! Or a punch in the mouth! The things I'd do to him...
Nephenee: Uhm... Heather? You sure are a lovely gal and all, but... You sure do say some funny things.
Brom: Can't argue with that, Nephenee. But that's just the way folks are. They ain't always what they appear to be. Ain't nobody perfect, neither. 'Less you're talkin' 'bout the goddess, that is.
???: Excuse me...
Heather: Hm?
Nephenee: Oh!
Brom: Well! Hi there, Miss Lucia. What can we help ya with?
Lucia: I came to ask for a favor. If it's not too much to ask, I'd like you both to accompany me to Felirae.
Brom: Hmm. Naw, that won't be a problem. You goin' ta catch the duke?
Lucia: Something a little more... preliminary. I guess you could call it espionage.
Brom: Espio-what? Sounds serious! Nephenee, you ever hearda that?
Nephenee: Oh, sure. When I was just a sprout, I caught a real bad case'a that. I got this awful rash all over my back, too!
Lucia: Uh... That's... a very nice story. Maybe I'd better explain what I mean.
Heather: Don't you know anything!? Espionage is all about stealing secrets and not getting caught. It's one of my many strong points!
Lucia: Oh, really? And who might you be?
Heather: My name is Heather! I'm a friend of Nephenee's. I'd do ANYTHING to help Her Majesty. Seriously, anything!
Lucia: ...I see. Maybe you can lend a hand as well.
Heather: Miss Lucia, you're the greatest! Like, amazingly stupendously great! I'd love to help!

Lethe: Lady Lucia! We've heard a rumor that you'll be leaving to investigate an enemy. Is this true?
Lucia: Lady Lethe, Sir Mordecai... I... Well...
Lethe: We could return to Gallia and bring back soldiers to help, you know. As an ally in a time of crisis, I'm certain our king would lend support.
Lucia: No, Lady Lethe. This is an internal affair. We don't want to have to involve Gallia in Crimea's civil problems.
Mordecai: More fighters are always better. The people of Gallia... All will fight for Queen Elincia.
Lucia: Listen, I know you mean well, but I just can't allow it. I'm sorry, but if there were even a hint of Gallia's assistance, there would be even more problems in the royal court.
Mordecai: Problems? What problems?
Lethe: This conflict isn't exactly a life-or-death situation for Crimea, so... Relying on support from a laguz nation would cause an uproar with the nobility. Is that what you mean?
Lucia: Yes, unfortunately. I'm ashamed to admit it, but it's the truth.
Lethe: No. It's common sense, given the history of both our nations. I completely understand. We won't report this to Gallia.
Lucia: Thank you for understanding. I apologize for troubling you.
Mordecai: No, it is fine.
Lethe: Why this tactic of rousing the people to rebel against the queen, though? Any laguz who wanted to be king would fight for it with teeth and claws, as is proper. You beorc are always wasting time talking.
Lucia: Our society is very complex. There's history and tradition, unwritten law and custom. There are lots of reasons for why we--
Lethe: Bah! Attempts to compromise won't get you anywhere. You should just kill him and get it over with.
Mordecai: Mordecai feels sad. Poor Queen Elincia... We cannot help her.
Lucia: That's not true, Mordecai. Having support from you and Lethe is very helpful.
Mordecai: Really? Mordecai will help with anything!
Lucia: Hmm. I have a great idea. Together with the laguz...
Leanne: (I'll go too!)
Lucia: Princess Leanne? Why do I suddenly have a crowd?
Lethe: She says that she'd like to go.
Lucia: No, I'm sorry. It's much too dangerous where we're going. I couldn't risk something happening to you.
Nealuchi: Hoo hoo! I guess this mangy old coot will be joining the action, then! To ensure my lady's safety, of course.
Lucia: Sir Neluchi, as well? Stars above...

Lucia: Your Majesty...?
Elincia: OK... All finished.
Lucia: What are you doing?
Elincia: Don't worry about it. It's a secret.
Lucia: Aha! That was a needle and thread, wasn't it?! Did you just sew something into my collar?
Elincia: It's a good-luck charm. To keep you safe while you're away. So you'll come back to me in one piece.
Lucia: Elincia...
Elincia: Be careful out there. I'll be praying for you.
Lucia: Thanks. I'll be back with good news. I promise.

Geoffrey: Lucia, wait!
Lucia: You can't stop me, Geoffrey.
Geoffrey: I know that. But I can try to keep you safe, can't I? So I'd like you to take this.
Lucia: An elixir? I don't need it. I'm just... I'm not going to fight, you know.
Geoffrey: If you don't use it, so much the better. But just hold on to it. For me.
Lucia: All right.
Geoffrey: Promise me you won't do anything stupid. Promise for Elincia and me. And for Bastian.
Lucia: For you to even mention his name at a time like this... I give up. Sure, I promise. Keep Queen Elincia safe, got it?
Geoffrey: Of course. On my life.
/***EOF***/
@Intro
Jarod: You summoned me, Your Grace?
Numida: Jarod, there is trouble. The apostle has formed an inspection team. She's dispatching it to Daein.
Jarod: Oh-ho...
Numida: I've arranged to meet with the senate's vice-minister, Duke Gaddos. If we ask him the favor... I imagine he could discreetly sweep their findings under the rug. But in the meantime, you MUST obliterate the insurgents! Once that is done, we'll devise excuses.
Jarod: Understood, sir.

Alder: What's the plan? Will the senators be able to cover up this mess?
Jarod: If the inspection team and the rebel army ever cross paths...even the senate won't be able to hide the truth. We'll lure the rebels to Shifu Swamp. We'll plant tales of a mass execution there, and they'll be sure to come. Then, we'll trap the malcontents and wipe them from the face of the land.

Daein: It's amazing... My wound is healed. I give you thanks. I never thought I'd see the Silver-Haired Maiden work miracles before my very eyes.

Prisoner: Silver-Haired Maiden! Help them! You must help them!
Micaiah: Help who? What's going on? Calm down and tell me.
Prisoner: They're killing our men! I beg you, please, save them!

Pelleas: Prisoners from Joad Work Camp are being collected in Shifu Swamp and executed...
Tauroneo: Not only Joad. There's reportedly a plan to exterminate all prisoners in every camp and let the swamp conceal the remains.
Izuka: I've heard nothing of such a plan! It's a false rumor! Or an enemy trap!
Micaiah: It may indeed be a trap. But if we don't investigate, we risk a mass execution!
Izuka: And what if it is a trap and they vanquish the Liberation Army? The dream of restoring Daein to glory will die instantly! For the good of Daein's future, we must ignore this threat.
Micaiah: ...I understand. And that's why I won't take any troops. Only myself...and my old friends will go.
Pelleas: Mi-Micaiah!
Micaiah: If you refuse them your permission, I will go alone. 
Izuka: Stop right there, little lady!! I will not authorize this action without the prince's full approval!
Pelleas: Izuka... Let her do as she wishes. Please. She hasn't disappointed us yet.
Izuka: My prince... Hrrgh! Fine. But I can't help but feel as if these children are running your army.

@Conversation 
Sothe: We're just about ready. Let's talk to Tormod, and--
Micaiah: ...
Sothe: Micaiah?
Micaiah: Oh, sorry.
Sothe: Hey, remember our promise from three years ago? There are no secrets between us.
Micaiah: Sothe, Muarim knows that I'm older than I look.
Sothe: I see. Well, don't worry too much about it. You can trust him.
Micaiah: Yes, I'm sure of that. Muarim seems very trustworthy. But, what about everyone else? What would they think if they knew all of my abilities came from the mixed blood running through my veins? Blood they consider cursed!
Sothe: Micaiah, stop...
Micaiah: Right now, when they look at me, they have love and affection in their eyes, but would they look at me the same way if they knew? I don't want to find out, Sothe. I don't think I could bear the truth.
Sothe: You know, we can stop.
Micaiah: What do you mean?
Sothe: Look, this was an impossible situation to begin with. You've always led such a secluded life... Ever since you were thrust into this position, I worried that the pressure might get to you.
Micaiah: You're right. I knew it would turn out like this. Despite that, I accepted the job. I can't stop now.
Sothe: But, Micaiah...
Micaiah: Listen, Sothe. I realized something after Daein lost the war.
Sothe: What's that?
Micaiah: I realized how much I loved my country.
Sothe: And?
Micaiah: During the war, I spent a lot of time with the people of Daein while I was waiting for you to return. After we lost the war, all our cities and towns had been reduced to ruins. We had to help each other to cope. We supported and comforted each other. That's how we survived.
Sothe: You never mentioned this before.
Micaiah: I've been secluded so long, I had no idea people were so strong...and kind. No one knew who I was, but they helped me because I was from Daein. They were so...loving. They were my friends.
Sothe: And now you won't leave them.
Micaiah: I was touched by their kindness. Now, I'm scared to lose it. Very scared.
Sothe: Micaiah...
Micaiah: I suppose this isn't the time to worry about such things. If my power is needed to liberate Daein, I will stand my ground and fight.
Sothe: Well, not to spoil your resolve... But if things get too hot, I'm just going to grab you and run.
Micaiah: Sothe...
Sothe: Friends and Daein are important, but not as important as you are to me. Remember that.
Micaiah: ...All right. Thank you, Sothe.

Tauroneo: Sorry about this, Lady Micaiah. Just this once, I agree with Lord Izuka’s concerns.
Micaiah: I completely understand. This is my fight, and mine alone. Please keep the prince safe, General Tauroneo.
Sothe: I’ll protect Micaiah. I’ve enlisted extra help, too. We’ll make it back in one piece.
Tauroneo: I place my trust in you, Sothe. Best of luck. Oh, I nearly forgot. You should take this.
Micaiah: What a peculiar staff... What power does it possess?
Tauroneo: It is a restore staff. It will help you recover from poison, sleep, and paralysis. Enemies will use every method they possess to destroy you. It is best that you be prepared for every eventuality.
Micaiah: Thank you, General Tauroneo. We will return safely.
Tauroneo: I know. And I know you’ll save the hostages, too.

Vika: Hm... I wonder where Boss is? These tents all look the same...
Micaiah: Hello, Vika. Can I help you?
Vika: Meep!
Micaiah: Vika!
Vika: ...
Micaiah: You always run away from me... Did I do something to offend you?
Vika: No, I’m so sorry. I can’t explain why this happens. I get so jumpy around you. There’s just... something about you.
Micaiah: Oh...
Vika: Oh, but please don’t be sad! It’s not you. It’s me. I get...confused...sometimes. I really admire you, and then I get a bizarre feeling, and...
Micaiah: It’s all right. Sorry to bother you.
Vika: ...No. Wait.
Micaiah: Hm?
Vika: I want to overcome this. I don’t like that I feel I must avoid you for some inexplicable reason.
Micaiah: But...
Vika: I know how painful it is to be...feared. I’m really, really sorry. Let’s be friends, OK? If you can forgive me, that is...
Micaiah: Of course I forgive you! Thank you, Vika. I’d be honored to have your friendship.
Vika: Here. Take this as a token of that friendship. Please, take it. I’d like you to have it.
Micaiah: What a beautiful figurine. The goddess looks so serene.
Vika: Carry it with you. It’ll bring you good luck. I met my boss and Muarim thanks to that figurine.
Micaiah: Thank you, Vika. I’ll cherish it.
Vika: I’m glad you like it.

@Intro
Radmin: Good. You may begin!
Bandit: Here, have a little swim!

Youth: Aaaaaaaahhh! No! Nooo! Help, someone!
Micaiah: Stop! 

Begnion: You're that...bleeding-heart filth!
Micaiah: We are the Daein Liberation Army! Everyone, hold tight! You'll be safe soon!
Youth: Look at her hair... Could it be the Silver-Haired Maiden? Our country's savior, come to rescue us?
Youth: The Savior of Daein!
Radmin: Whether they suspected a trap or not, they're here. Brazen fools! All hands, take battle positions!

Radmin: Silver-haired wench! I'm going to drown you and all of Daein's hopes in these filthy waters! You've no escape!
Micaiah: So...it's a trap after all.
Sothe: Don't get too smug, you cruel cowards! We have a little something up our sleeves too. Tormod! Here's your chance!

Micaiah: Lady Nailah! Volug!

Begnion: Su-sub-humans! They're everywhere! How?
Micaiah: Rafiel, even you came to help?

Micaiah: What happened just now? What was that strange song?
Sothe: That was Vigor, a heron galdr that can reenergize our allies in a fight. Don't be distracted, Micaiah! Let's set our formation while we can.

@Battle-Talk 
%Micaiah,Nailah
Micaiah: Queen Nailah, are you sure it's all right involving not only you, but Rafiel, as well?
Nailah: Rafiel can't fly, so sometimes he has trouble keeping up. But even so, the effects of his galdr make him a valuable asset in battle. All I ask is that you keep him near me, so I can keep him safe.
Micaiah: I understand. I will.

%Micaiah,Rafiel
Micaiah: Rafiel...why did you come? I thought herons abhorred fighting...
Rafiel: Wherever the queen goes, I follow. I practice seid magic... Even if I cannot fight, I can lend strength to my friends and companions.
Micaiah: Yes, I heard you singing to Queen Nailah and Volug earlier. We are blessed to have you at our side.
Rafiel: And if I sing to you, I can restore your spirits as well, so that you might attack your foes swiftly.
Micaiah: So you will help us?
Rafiel: Helping you would give me great joy.
Micaiah: You have my thanks.

@Boss
Radmin: Silver-Haired Maiden, or whoever you really are! I knew you'd come! I knew how your reputation would suffer if you abandoned these prisoners here. You had no choice but to come.
Micaiah: How many innocent, defenseless people have you ordered killed...just to lure me here?
Radmin: Look who's passing judgment! Maiden of Miracles, Savior of Daein... You've spun quite a pack of lies to inspire your conquered people. But that ends here, wench! Let's show them how insignificant you really are!

Radmin: That wench...her powers...much...too dangerous... She mustn't be allowed...to...

@End
Micaiah: We're nearly back to camp. I wonder if the prince will overlook the fact that I insisted on this mission?
Sothe: I'm sure he'll be happy when he sees the prisoners are safe.
Micaiah: Sothe...do you hear a noise coming from the canyon? Is it...people shouting?

Daein: Look! Look up there! The Maiden has returned! And the prisoners are with her!
Daein: She won another victory! She escaped their trap and destroyed the enemy...again!
Daein: Radiant with divine protection, she truly has the goddess's blessing! The Silver-Haired Maiden! Our priestess!
Daein: Priestess...of Dawn! Hooray, Lady Micaiah!

Micaiah: What could they be celebrating?

Nailah: It seems the soldiers are celebrating your liberation of the prisoners. You should wave to them. People like their heroes to seem approachable. It would make them happy.
Micaiah: I'm no hero... But I see what you mean. 
Daein: What a glorious sight she is!
Daein: Lady Micaiah! Lady Micaiah, the Priestess of Dawn!



Sothe: Here you are. I've been looking for you.
Micaiah: Sothe, after all those soldiers cheering... I feel like I'm doing real good here...
Sothe: ...Micaiah?
Tormod: Sothe! Please, come quick! There's something wrong with Muarim!

Muarim: Ghh...grraaahrrrr...
Tormod: Muarim, get ahold of yourself! Look at me!

Muarim: ...Gh... Li...ttle...one...
Tormod: This happens over and over... Muarim suddenly transforms, and...he growls like he's losing his mind. And if I...if I grab him and yell his name again and again, he returns to himself, but...then it just starts over. And...and...when he's growling, his eyes, they look... It's as if, as if one of "them" is looking at me...
Micaiah: "Them"? One of "them"? One of who?
Sothe: You can't mean... No!
Tormod: H-help him, please. I don't know what to do. The time between transformations is getting shorter and shorter...
Muarim: Agh... My body can't... ...No, no, no... Little one...get away...
Tormod: No, I won't let you! I'll die before I let you go feral! Muarim! Look at me!

Sothe: That song...

Micaiah: Rafiel...

Muarim: Gh...
Tormod: Wha--! Muarim! Muarim!
Rafiel: ...The galdr of rebirth restores twisted bodies and souls to their proper states. He will be all right now.
Tormod: Th...thank you... Without Muarim...life would be...terrible...

Micaiah: What was that song? It was different than when he sang before...
Sothe: It was the galdr of rebirth. I heard it once before, in the war. But... Micaiah, what's wrong?
Micaiah: I feel...odd. Maybe it was the song... I'm shaking, for some reason... But I'm truly glad that Muarim will be all right...

Pelleas: Feral Ones?
Sothe: In the Mad King's War... Daein's military developed living weapons. They were called "Feral Ones"...laguz that had been warped and twisted by terrible experiments.
Izuka: "Terrible," you say?! Do you mean to refute the highly effective results of my brilliant research?!
Micaiah: Then it was you! You secretly gave Muarim the drug to turn him into a Feral One!
Izuka: And what's wrong with that? Maintaining constant battle strength in beast state... How splendid!
Tormod: How dare you! Transforming laguz into Feral Ones dramatically shortens their life spans. It destroys their sense of self, and they do nothing but fight until they die! And you! You gave Muarim that drug!
Izuka: Pawns need no sense of self! It's only natural to sacrifice soldiers for victory in war!
Micaiah: You twisted maniac! You are the lowest--
Pelleas: Everybody! Wait, please! Izuka clearly did a terrible thing to that sub-hum--that laguz, I apologize. Tormod... I'm truly sorry. He will not use the drug again. So, please... Try to forgive him...
Micaiah: Prince Pelleas...
Izuka: My prince! We must not have royalty bowing and scraping before swine like--
Tormod: ...That's enough! 
Sothe: Tormod!
Micaiah: Let him go...


Sanaki: I see... Is that true?
Lekain: Yes, Apostle. Our occupation forces have engaged in appalling and inhumane excesses in Daein. These excesses were perpetrated entirely outside the knowledge of the occupational governor, Duke Numida.
Numida: I come to you penitent... Failing my duties as governor, I, Numida, share a measure of guilt for this disaster. I am prepared to take the appropriate punishment, Apostle Sanaki. However, I feel that freeing the people of Daein from the clutches of our oppression is our most urgent task...
Sanaki: Urgent, you say? Then we must make haste. We will forthwith convene an inspection team and request a meeting with the army led by the late King Ashnard's orphan. We will assure them of Begnion's intentions. Then, we will immediately address the occupation force's tyranny.
Lekain: Excellent! In that case, please deign to allow me, your humble servant Lekain, to lead the inspection team. The soldiers who have stained the empire's name will be toppled where they stand! I promise, they shall not live to return here.
Sanaki: That is unacceptable. I will decide the soldiers' punishment only after hearing their side. And I have chosen to appoint Sephiran, Duke Persis, to lead the investigation team. Is that acceptable, Sephiran?
Sephiran: I hear and I obey, my empress.
Lekain: What?! But, but, Apostle Sanaki...
Sanaki: This is a dire situation. Accordingly, I judge the prime minister, Duke Persis, to be more suited to the role than you, Vice-Minister Lekain. That is all. 
Lekain: Hrrgh...
Numida: L-Lord Lekain...! What shall I do?!
Lekain: Duke Numida, my friend... I'm afraid you must sacrifice every last Begnion in the Imperial Occupation Army.
Numida: What? Th-that's ridiculous! But...grrgh! Blast that spoiled brat and her cunning little schemes... You'll regret this, Apostle Sanaki!

@Narration
Micaiah and her small band of fighters knowingly walk into a trap to save condemned Daein prisoners. Even without the benefit of Izuka's vast information network, news of Micaiah's heroism in Shifu Swamp spreads like wildfire across Daein.
The once-hopeless citizens of Daein dub her the Priestess of Dawn and find their spirits restored. In their troubled hearts, they see in her nothing less than the promise of salvation. Throughout Daein, the people rise as one against the brutality of their oppressors. Begnion's occupying forces cannot deal with open war on so many fronts.
General Jarod redeploys his men to key locations to better defend the capital city. Jarod's forces still outnumber those of the Daein liberators, and he has hardened his defenses in hopes of holding off Micaiah's army.
The liberation forces fight with a fury not to be denied, however, and the occupation army begins to lose its will to fight. Breaking through enemy lines again and again, Micaiah's forces gain vital ground and momentum.
Despite the anger Micaiah feels toward Izuka for his treatment of their laguz allies, she continues to lead the army in its lightning-quick advance. Nevassa is now mere days away.

/***EOF***/
@Intro
Haar: So... We're guessing that flare sent up from Geoffrey's troops means Ludveck plans to come for Your Majesty. He's probably marching his troops toward this fortress as we speak. Since it's come to this, I'd like to stick around and help. Let me know if you need me.
Elincia: ...I see. Thank you ever so much. Sir Haar... I have one more question. What about Lucia? Have you heard from her? Is she safe?
Haar: We found a man's body in the village safehouse. We believe he was her messenger. We also found this...
Elincia: No! This is... This is Lucia's hair! But... How?
Haar: Well, we assume that Ludveck infiltrated her network of spies and captured her. This is his way of letting us know. It also means she's still alive, which means we still can save her. Queen Elincia, it's up to you to determine the best course of action.
Elincia: Y-yes, I... I know... Royal guards! Arm yourselves, and prepare to meet the rebel forces in battle. I will be commanding you personally.
Crimea: Your Majesty! But...you are the queen! It's much too dangerous! Please, assign a subordinate to this duty!
Elincia: I will not. It is my indecision that has allowed the rebellion to come this far. I refuse to run from this problem any longer.

Elincia: Lucia... Lucia, I'm sorry. Somehow, I promise you... I will save you!

Elincia: Princess Leanne, Sir Nealuchi... This fortress will soon be under siege.
Nealuchi: Wh-whaaat?!
Elincia: Somehow the enemy has found out that I am hiding here. My two fine friends... You must escape.
Leanne: I...sing...and h-help...Queen Elincia!
Elincia: No! Under no circumstances! I won't allow any such thing!
Leanne: I...like help...Q-Queen...Elincia.
Nealuchi: Now, now. When my lady makes up her mind, nothing in Tellius can sway her. And me? I'm sure you wouldn't mind having these old bones on the battlefield.
Elincia: Sir Nealuchi... Honestly, I couldn't... Sigh...
Nealuchi: Wait until you see me... Even at my age, I'll be one step ahead of those freshly hatched whippersnappers. 
Elincia: ...Very well. I must prepare as well. I had hoped this day would never come... Amiti, the treasured blade of House Crimea, will awake from its long slumber.

Elincia: ...The battle will begin soon. I want both of you to promise me that you will fall back if in danger. Understood?
Nealuchi: Fall back, Your Majesty? No one can hold a candle to the speed at which the raven tribe retreats.
Elincia: Ha ha... That's a relief.

Crimean Rebel: Reporting, sir! Fort Alpea's gate is sealed, and they are readying their defenses.
Ludveck: I see... Lady Lucia must have arranged some way to warn the queen. But alas, even if they were to have all the energy and luck in the world, the Royal Knights wouldn't arrive for two days. In any case, there's no way we can lose, considering that we have a card which has yet to be put into the game.

Crimea: Y-Your Majesty, dire news! The rear gate is open, and the rebel army is storming in!
Elincia: What?! how could this happen?!
Lethe: I think you'll understand once you question this man.
Elincia: You guard the inner garden, correct?
Crimea: You scum! You helped the rebel army, didn't you?!
Servant: Yes. Yes, I did. I did it because it was the best thing for the future of this country. Those Daein murderers killed my entire family, and now the queen bows down and wags her tail at them! It's a disgrace!
Crimea: Silence! You're the traitor here! Prepare to die.
Elincia: Wait! Killing this man will do nothing to help our situation. We have to halt Ludveck and his men. They're already inside!
Lethe: I'm going out there, too.
Mordecai: Mordecai will fight for you, Queen Elincia.
Brom: You can count on me, Your Majesty.
Nephenee: Queen Elincia, Crimea needs you more than anything, and I reckon you could use my help.
Heather: My homeland, being ruled by a snobby stiff like Ludveck? Please. I don't think so!
Crimea: Your Majesty! We would give our lives for our queen! Allow us to fight!
Elincia: Thank you, everyone. I am indeed the queen of Crimea, and a queen does not hide. Our enemies are fellow citizens of Crimea. But we can no longer sit idle as they destroy the harmony of our nation.

Ludveck: Could our situation be any better? Just look at these fragile defenses... As fragile as the queen's reign! Ludveck: ...Oh? The queen's taken command? I expected her to abandon her people, turn tail, and run for the hills. How preciously naïve. We shall have to teach her that being overly optimistic can be fatal.

@Battle
???: Queen Elincia! I made it!
Elincia: Marcia!
Marcia: Thanks to General Geoffrey, we spotted an ambush on the main road and snuck by on the old highway instead! The Royal Knights will be here soon. I flew ahead to tell you...and to serve you some traitor pie on my lance!
Elincia: ...Thank you. I'm impressed you made it back so quickly.
Marcia: My pleasure, Your Majesty! Now, which monkeys do you want filleted before the Royal Knights get here?

Geoffrey: Your Majesty! We'll countercharge their flank! The Royal Knights will succeed again! Indomitable knights of Crimea, this is the hour you have trained for! Hold the line, and run them down!
Elincia: Geoffrey! Geoffrey, oh, Geoffrey!
Geoffrey: Find Ludveck, duke of Felirae! Seize him immediately! He must not escape!
Ludveck: What a bother! They arrived far faster than I had expected. But I will prevail. I won't lose to that worthless queen.

@Battle-Talk 
%Elincia,Geoffrey
Elincia: Geoffrey!
Geoffrey: Elincia! I'm relieved you're safe. Leave the rest of the battle to us. Find someplace safe.
Elincia: No, this is my fight. This is my problem, and it will be resolved under my power!
Geoffrey: Very well. If that's your decision, Your Majesty.

@Boss
Ludveck: The day is upon us... A day that will stand proudly in the history of Crimea. Today, a weak queen falls...and a new king prevails!

%Geoffrey,Ludveck
Geoffrey: That's enough, Duke Ludveck! You have no chance of victory. The Royal Knights are here, and we have our queen to lead us.
Ludveck: Ho ho... It's the valiant Geoffrey. I assume, General, that you have yet to hear about Lady Lucia?
Geoffrey: Lucia? What's happened?
Ludveck: Well... I could tell you, but what would that gain me? Now, if you were to turn on the queen and grovel at my feet, I might consider telling you.
Geoffrey: How dare you, you rotten...

%Elincia,Ludveck
Ludveck: Queen Elincia...
Elincia: Ludveck.
Ludveck: Looking quite gallant, aren't we? I thought you would surely be fleeing by now...or pleading for your life. I must commend you on your unexpected bravery.
Elincia: I am the ruler of Crimea. I will not abandon that role.
Ludveck: Oh, I see... Self-sacrifice, is it? How very honorable of you. By the way, Your Majesty, Lady Lucia is often in your company. Wherever could she have gone to?
Elincia: Where is she?! Tell me she's safe! Tell me--now!
Ludveck: Oh my, you look pale. You two grew up like sisters... You must be worried, then? Ha! Yet another facet of your weakness.

@Boss
Ludveck: Elincia! I yield to you! Please... You may imprison me. Your Majesty, be merciful! Spare our lives. We surrender our weapons.

@End
Geoffrey: Queen Elincia! I'm so glad you're safe... Please forgive my tardiness. I've let you down. I'm sorry.
Elincia: Ridiculous! You did no such thing. Geoffrey... Thank you so much. So, what of the rebel army?
Geoffrey: Without Ludveck at the helm, they're a mess. They're all running about trying to escape. As commanded, we are not pursuing fleeing soldiers, and Lord Ludveck is locked up in the dungeon.

Geoffrey: Queen Elincia?
Elincia: Lucia is being held captive! If we're to save her, we need to talk to him.

Crimea: Your Majesty! General! W-we've received a missive! It concerns Lady Lucia!


Crimean Rebel: Queen of Crimea, we demand that you release the duke of Felirae! Refuse, and Lady Lucia will die!

Elincia: No!
Geoffrey: ...Lucia.
Crimean Rebel: You have half a mark! If the duke is not released by then, the girl dies!
Lucia: Queen Elincia, don't listen to them! Don't worry about me!

Lucia: Guh!
Crimean Rebel: Quiet! You can die sooner, if you like!
Geoffrey: ...Your Majesty, you can't... You have to let me do something about this.
Elincia: ...
Geoffrey: Lucia would willingly die fighting for her country, I know... But you have to help her, Elincia. If you were in her position, she would surely do the same. Please, just give the word.


Ludveck: Hello, Your Majesty... By the look on your face, I can see my plan has been a success.
Elincia: ...What exactly is it that you want? To throw our country into chaos?
Ludveck: No. I want to protect it, Your Majesty.
Elincia: What?!
Ludveck: Queen Elincia, you're so naïve. Cold and callous decisions are sometimes required of a nation's ruler. ...I was testing you. We all wanted to know if our queen would have the power to stop a civil war. But, no, you were too hesitant and too concerned about harming the people... Now look what has happened. The rule of Crimea cannot be kept in your hands! Please, Your Majesty! You must abdicate and cede the crown to me! And considering Lady Lucia's life is on the line, you haven't much choice. Now, let's have you free me from this prison cell, and then we can discuss any further details...
Elincia: I don't think so.
Ludveck: What?! Are you truly willing to sacrifice Lady Lucia?!
Elincia: ...Lord Ludveck, all your dissatisfaction and misgivings about me are well founded. However, do you realize how many lives you've simply thrown away?! Strength without compassion does not a ruler make. You care nothing for the people, sir. You cloak your desire to rule with pretty speeches, but it is petty avarice nonetheless!
Ludveck: ...So this is how it shall be? Very well... But Lady Lucia cannot be spared without my order.
Elincia: Allowing you to plant the seeds of rebellion and play havoc with the lives of my people is a failure for which I must answer. But I will see Crimea through this trial. I will give my people the future they deserve, no matter the cost. 
Ludveck: ...Ha... Ha ha ha ha! Well played, Your Majesty! Indeed, I have failed. Yet I wonder... Are you capable of watching Lucia die? Or will you crawl back to me, your face awash with tears, begging for mercy? How I pray to see that face, Your Majesty!

Elincia: Rebel soldiers, hear me! Ludveck of Felirae, having conspired against the nation, will stand trial. As the queen and ruler of Crimea, I refuse to negotiate with those bent on destroying it.
Crimean Rebel: ...So you're going to let this girl die?!
Lucia: Hah!
Elincia: I will be strong, Lucia...
Crimean Rebel: Tch... Kick, scream, beg... Give us a show, wench!
Crimean Rebel: Your Highness! Your trusted friend will now die. Let this burn forever in your memory! 
Lucia: People of Crimea... Behold a true queen! YOUR queen! Long live Queen Elincia!

@Cutscene
Shinon: Come on. Do it. It's a clean shot.

Shinon:  What's the problem?
Rolf: I'm nervous. What if I hit her?
Shinon:  It's too late for nerves, Rolf. If you're not up to it, just leave it to the master, eh?  Watch and learn. One clean motion, no hesitation.

Crimean Rebel: The queen's men are attacking!
Crimean Rebel: Stop him!

Mia: Soren, always lost in your books! What have I said about watching your back?

Crimean Rebel: Form up! Surround them all! Don't let a single one escape!

Mist: Hold on, Lucia! Everything will be fine!

Mist: Can you hear me? Hold on!

@End
Geoffrey: Queen Elincia! It's Sir Ike and the Greil Mercenaries! They came to our aid! Now we'll get Lucia back in one piece. We've nothing more to worry about. I'll deploy my knights at once!

Elincia: ...Hh... ... 

Elincia: Sir Ike... If you hadn't come to help, I would have lost one of my dearest friends. Thank you... Thank you ever so much.
Ike: We were happy to do it. And Bastian pays well for mercenary work.
Elincia: Bastian?
Ike: Yes. The count of Fayre knew about Ludveck's plotting before he left for Daein. Bastian guessed that if he left the country, the rebels would feel confident enough to make their move. What else could you expect from Crimea's top tactician? Well...Crimea's most deceptive old dog, at any rate.
Elincia: Yes, that's just like him...
Ike: Sorry that we had to stay hidden until the last minute. For a ruse like that to work, you have to deceive allies as well as enemies. I know you were acting in Crimea's best interests, but I'm sorry you had to let that happen to Lucia.
Lucia: No... It worked out fine in the end. Please put it out of your mind.
Elincia: Lucia, Geoffrey... I value your lives more than even my own. But it's my duty to protect this country, even if that means losing you. I've learned a lot from all of this. I hope to keep them out of harm's way, and I'll never make the same mistakes again.
Ike: Good to hear. So what are you going to do about all the escaped rebel soldiers?
Elincia: The rebel army will be eradicated. We cannot allow them to sow the seeds of discontent among the people of Crimea.
Ike: That's the right choice. Would you consider contracting my mercenaries for the job?
Elincia: ...No, Sir Ike. I'll leave that up to the Royal Knights. I'm certain this task will create anger among the people, and the Royal Knights may be resented for their role in it... But my duty as queen demands that it be done. The people will have to learn to accept that.
Ike: I respect your devotion to duty. So, you don't need me then?
Elincia: That's right. I'm going to move on, together with my vassals and the people of this country.

Elincia: Sir Ike... Before you leave, there's something I'd like to talk to you about.
Ike: What is it?
Elincia: When you heard from Bastian... Did he say anything about Daein?
Ike: No, nothing.
Elincia: He informed me of a number of things. Apparently Daein's reconstruction is playing out much like Crimea's... He spoke of a new king raising the banner of war, and a charismatic young hero carrying it into battle. He compared King Pelleas to me, and a "Silver-Haired Maiden" to you... It's almost unnatural. He suspected that someone might be scheming, trying to manipulate Daein. Bastian seemed quite suspicious of it all.
Ike: So Bastian went to Daein to try and confirm his suspicions on that?
Elincia: Yes. There was also something about Daein's resurrection that we can't afford to overlook. ...The Black Knight.
Ike: What?!

Elincia: I'll never forget him... He was the one warrior who the late King Ashnard trusted. Encased in pitch-black armor, standing tall with a crimson cape... When the Liberation Army fought at the capital, he was there. He sided with the Silver-Haired Maiden.
Ike: The Black Knight... The man who killed my father... But I defeated him three years ago. I'm sure of it. At the very least, he couldn't have escaped when Nados Castle came crashing down on him.

Elincia: The day after you fought, Bastian ordered some men to search the remains of Nados Castle. There was no trace of the Black Knight. No armor... No sword... No corpse.

Elincia: If the Black Knight that was seen in Daein was indeed the same Black Knight... He might prove to be a threat to Crimea.
Ike: Hmm. If he's still alive... I have no doubt I'll see him again. Elincia, this is very important information to me. Thank you.
Elincia: Of course.

/***EOF***/
@Intro
Crimea: Your Majesty, the Begnion army has crossed the border. They are seizing food and supplies and calling it tribute to the empire. There are no casualties yet, but they are acting like bandits!
Elincia: I see... So, they simply ignored me.
Lucia: What shall I tell the troops, Your Majesty?
Elincia: ...Order the Royal Knights to mobilize. Ride out and advise Begnion to withdraw. If they do not comply... I approve the use of force to remove them from our lands.
Aristocrat: But...Your Majesty! This is the Begnion army we are talking about! It would be unwise to provoke them!
Elincia: I had hoped to avoid this situation... But the empire's attempts to strong-arm our people shall not go unanswered. Deploying the Royal Knights is the only way to protect our borders from incursion. However, I remain open to suggestions. Do you have an alternate plan of action, Lord Saron?
Aristocrat: N-no... Please forgive my impudence. Your Majesty is quite right.
Elincia: I am glad we are in agreement, Lord Saron.
Lucia: This whole situation disturbs me greatly. I wonder... What is happening to the empire?
Elincia: I doubt that the apostle would allow this sort of thing to happen. We should prepare for the worst. I fear something horrible must be happening within Begnion.

@Conversation
Man: Hey, did you hear? The Imperial Army is requesting Crimea's assistance.
Youth 1: Yeah, I heard! I also heard that the messenger treated our queen with no respect at all! Who do they think they are!?
Lady: Shhh! Not so loud! Begnion is ruled by the apostle. They helped us when Daein invaded. It's only right that we pay back the favor by coming to their aid.
Man: But Begnion is fighting the beast tribes of Gallia. Why would we fight Gallia? The beast tribes helped us rebuild Crimea.
Youth 2: That's true, but come on! Think about it. Who would you rather side with? A land of beorc, or the land of sub...laguz? The answer's as plain as day. We side with the beorc.
Man: Hmm... You have a point.
Youth 1: I'd choose Gallia over Begnion.
Lady: Really?
Youth 2: But why?
Youth 1: The people of Gallia helped us rebuild the village, even though we're beorc. They even repaired the road to the farm that's up on the mountain. That wasn't an easy job, either.
Lady: Yes, I remember. What was his name... Mordecai? He was strong, yet very kind. He looked frightening at first, but the children in the village loved to play with him. He was a wonderful man.
Man: If the queen decides to answer Begnion's request for troops, we'd have to fight Gallia. How terrible would that be?
Youth 2: That's war, isn't it?
Man: Yes. I suppose it is, at that.
Lady: Hmm.
Youth 2: I wish we didn't have to fight anyone at all.

Calill: It’s been one thing after another. First, the civil unrest, then the imperial invasion. I’m so sick of hearing about all of it.
Makalov: You and me both. I figured I’d be able to get in some me time now that Crimea’s peaceful again. Get a card game started or something...
Largo: You’re a Royal Knight. If the queen decides you should go sweep away ten or a hundred imperial soldiers, you should probably go do it.
Makalov: Yeah... We’ve been ordered to mobilize, and I can’t think of any excuse to get out of it. Maybe I could pretend to be dead. Any ideas, Amy?
Amy: Don’t make General Geoffrey mad! You’re a Royal Knight! You better follow his orders!
Makalov: Amy! You’re supposed to HELP me! She’s obviously been spending way too much time with you, Calill.
Calill: Well of course, you twit! All right, Makalov. It’s time for you to pay up and go.
Makalov: What!? But... I think my stomach’s acting funny...
???: That’s enough, you layabout!
Makalov: Oh. Hi, Marcia. Don’t surprise me like that!
Marcia: Makalov! I knew I’d find you here, slacker! You’re making the whole squad wait for you! Hurry up and head back!
Makalov: I don’t know about all this. Fighting the Imperial Army means fighting my old comrades. I don’t wanna fight my old friends. You know what I mean?
Marcia: ...I think I see. You owe them money, don’t you? Isn’t that the real reason why you don’t want to see them, cheese breath?
Makalov: W-when did you learn to read minds like the herons!?
Marcia: I can’t, you spineless sea cucumber! It’s just so typical of you that I guessed!
Astrid: Marcia, please. That’s quite enough.
Marcia: But, Astrid! It’s despicable!
Astrid: Look at how calm Sir Makalov is. He never gets irritated or upset. It’s the mark of a true knight. A good knight must know how to keep his cool on the battlefield.
Marcia: Um. But... we’re in a bar.
Astrid: Oh, I hope to be as good a knight as Sir Makalov someday! How I dream of that day!
Makalov: Heh.
Marcia: I don’t believe this.
Makalov: ...You don’t wanna end up like me, baby.
Marcia: Oh, I completely agree! Who’d want to end up a clown-haired chowderhead?
Astrid: The love you two have for each other is so wonderful. I wish I had a sibling!
Makalov: Uh, sure...
Marcia: I’ll sell him to you. Cheap.

Elincia: Geoffrey. Please take this with you.
Geoffrey: Why... this is a master crown! I am honored, Your Majesty. I will cherish it.
Elincia: I have been asking you to fight difficult battles against terrible odds.
Geoffrey: Your Majesty, allow me to reiterate: that is exactly what I wish. No matter the task, and no matter the odds, I can only succeed at it so long as you depend on me. I am yours entirely, Your Majesty.
Elincia: I shall take those words to heart. Geoffrey of Delbray, you are truly my finest and mot faithful knight.
Geoffrey: Thank you, Your Majesty.

Lucia: Here are the war funds. Remember, Geoffrey. You will face the Imperial Army. Should there be a conflict, you must not be caught unprepared.
Geoffrey: I shall be prepared, Lucia.

@Intro
Roark: Are you layabouts done collecting supplies? We don't have all day!
Begnion: No, sir. Progress is slow. These people just don't have much. Something about an uprising earlier...
Roark: Fools! I don't want excuses! Take anything you see, and if these bumpkins complain at all, cut them down! Because you can bet your armor that Senator Valtome will do the same to us if we're not done by the time he arrives!

Begnion: Reporting, sir! A Crimean army is approaching from the southwest! It seems to be the Royal Knights!
Roark: Wh-what?! Crimea is moving against us?! Those backwater fools! All right. Keep working. I'll take several men out to slow their approach! Colonial fools... I'll teach them what it means to defy the empire!

Kieran: General Geoffrey! We've confirmed the presence of the Begnion army in the village ahead of us!
Geoffrey: I would prefer to avoid a fight, but I suppose that decision is up to them. Let's hurry!

@Battle
Roark: Crimean soldiers! How dare you turn your weapons against us! You will pay for this betrayal. Men, burn these shanties to the ground! Show these fools what we do to traitors!

Geoffrey: Monsters! They're setting the village on fire! Knights, evacuate the villagers and put out the fires immediately!

@Boss
Roark: Dog of Crimea! I'll crush you!

Roark: The empire will not forget this... Once our main forces arrive, they will slaughter you like cattle!

%Geoffrey,Roark
Geoffrey: I am Geoffrey, the commander of the Crimean Royal Knights. Do you command these men?
Roark: Knight of Crimea. You are clearly guilty of treason against the Begnion Empire! Do you understand what it means to send an army against us? You've just killed your people.
Geoffrey: You have been warned. Queen Elincia will not accept any further acts of violence or banditry within our borders! Withdraw your troops immediately, or I cannot guarantee your safe return! Decide quickly.
Roark: How dare you take that tone with me! I'll put you in your place!

@End
Geoffrey: Good, the enemy's retreating. Knights! Stay here and help to fix the damage done to this village.

Lucia: Good work, Geoffrey. You sent them running.
Geoffrey: Lucia! What are you doing here?
Lucia: I'm here to protect Her Majesty.

Elincia: Superb work, Geoffrey. You have my thanks.
Geoffrey: Your Majesty... Forgive me. I could not avoid a confrontation with the Imperial Army.
Elincia: It wasn't your fault, Geoffrey. However...I'm afraid our situation continues to deteriorate. Lucia, I appoint you as envoy to negotiate a treaty with the commander of the Imperial Army. They might be willing to listen now.
Lucia: I shall leave immediately, Your Majesty.


Elincia: Senator Valtome... I sincerely regret having to meet under these circumstances.
Valtome: Oh, I completely agree, Your Majesty. I never dreamed we'd suffer so much mistreatment from our allies. So, you've decided that Crimea will side with Gallia, and honor the alliance with those filthy sub-humans over ours?
Elincia: As I've said before, Crimea remains neutral. Crimea will side neither with Begnion nor the Laguz Alliance. That is my final answer.
Valtome: Ah, then please enlighten me... Why prevent us from getting what we needed? Begnion is your suzerain. You should be...delighted...to comply with our request for supplies. But instead, you launch an ambush and inflict horrible pain on us, your loving guardians. Now, Begnion is a patient parent, but I do hope you realize that your actions thus far have amounted to treason and sedition...
Elincia: You have violated our borders, stolen from my people, and inflicted harm upon them. I will not allow such actions within my lands, no matter who the aggressor may be!
Valtome: How quaint. Uwee hee hee... Your Majesty, do you know what the penalties are for the crimes you've committed? I can only assume you do not, or you would not so rashly endanger your life. But don't worry, Queen Elincia. Once Begnion has your crown--along with your head--removed for treason, I'm sure we will take VERY good care of your people.
Zelgius: Senator Valtome!
Valtome: I think, after the dust has settled, I'll place my portrait right over your throne-- ...Mmm-hmm. It was a pleasure chatting with Your Majesty. I am leaving now. She's all yours, General. 
Zelgius: Your Majesty... Please forgive my superior officer's insolence.
Elincia: Wait, I recognize you... You came to our aid some time ago, during the Mad King's War. General Zelgius, wasn't it?
Zelgius: Yes, Your Majesty. This is the second time I've had the honor of seeing you. I sincerely apologize for my army's actions during the resupply operation. Please, forgive us.
Elincia: The Begnion Empire and the apostle gave us much support in our reconstruction effort. Crimea will always appreciate Begnion's generosity. However... Crimea and Gallia are allies. As such, we cannot take a side in this quarrel. Please understand.
Zelgius: ...I understand, Your Majesty. Our forces will refrain from levying supplies while in Crimea.
Elincia: Oh... Thank you for your understanding.
Zelgius: However, I must ask you to agree on these two points. First, the Imperial Army shall be given leave to pass through Crimea toward Gallia. Second, we shall be allowed to engage the Gallian army in towns near the Crimea-Gallia border.
Elincia: Excuse me?! This peace talk is meaningless. You will still do battle and spill blood within our borders!
Zelgius: I'm afraid this is the best I can offer. It's sometimes necessary to cut your losses for the greater good. Please think on it. Tomorrow, my army will begin marching toward Gallia. If the Crimean army does not interfere, I will take it as a sign of agreement. Farewell, Your Majesty. 
Elincia: General Zelgius! Please wait!

Elincia: Does the apostle know anything about this war with the laguz?
Zelgius: ...
Elincia: It's just very hard for me to believe... Is this war truly the will of the apostle?
Zelgius: ...That is not for me to answer, Your Majesty.
Elincia: Then at least tell me this: is the apostle safe?
Zelgius: ...Excuse me, I must go. 
Elincia: General...

@Narration
After Elincia's meeting with Valtome, the Crimean Royal Knights return to the capital of Melior, leaving the border villages between Crimea and Gallia completely undefended.
The Begnion Central Army crosses the border once more, but Crimea makes no move to march against it. Valtome sees this inaction as a sign of Crimea's capitulation to Begnion's demands. The Begnion forces occupy the Crimean castles and forts on the border with Gallia and prepare to launch their attack.
The Laguz Alliance finally makes its way back to Gallia, but word of Begnion's approach allows them no time for rest. The news that Gallia's ally, Crimea, has allowed Begnion to travel through its lands comes as a great blow to the Laguz Alliance.

/***EOF***/
@Intro
Ranulf: Felirae, Mugill, and Telgam are ours. But this war has just started. The enemy's main force is in Sienne, the capital. The real fight starts now.
Skrimir: Ah, now we fight the big battle! My claws itch for beorc flesh. Hey, Ranulf! Are there strong enemies in the capital?
Ranulf: There will be plenty. Before we go, we must fight the northern nobles. Their collective army is massive.
Soren: By now, I imagine the Begnion Central Army is heading our way. They're going to be our real problem.
Titania: So, if we're too slow, we get caught in the middle.
Ike: I don't like the sound of this. Soren, do you have a deployment plan worked out?
Ranulf: Actually, why don't you all just relax? You might not believe it, but WE have a plan this time!

Titania: I see. An army of that size would require a massive amount of supplies to be able to sustain itself. So the bird tribes will hit the Central Army's supply unit and slow their advance.
Ranulf: Exactly. The empire fears the bird tribes. The Shipless Pirates, they're called. They specialize in surprise attacks and have been raiding Begnion merchant ships for years.
Ike: After they hit the supply unit, the bird tribes will head north. We'll meet up with them after we finish off the nobles' forces. Then when the Central Army arrives, we'll attack them together. Does that pretty much sum it up?
Soren: I'm surprised. As laguz strategies go, it's not bad at all. We might even win, provided everything goes as planned.


Naesala: Tibarn! We can't see it yet, but Begnion is close. Shouldn't you let your men take a break?
Tibarn: Yeah... Let's land on one of those islands and get some rest.

Tibarn: You're full of surprises, Naesala. I never expected you to join the Laguz Alliance. I wish you could be this helpful all the time.
Naesala: Tibarn, just stop. I'm not interested in your friendship.
Tibarn: The hawk tribe and the raven tribe used to live together in Phoenicis. Our tribes were like brothers! Maybe if you fess up about some of your secrets, I might consider helping you out in the future.
Naesala: That doesn't really narrow it down, Tibarn. Which secrets are you talking about?
Tibarn: How about the secret of how you suddenly became first in line to succeed the throne of Kilvas?
Naesala: Oh, THAT secret. Sure, no problem.. I'll tell you if we live through this war. Sound all right to you?
Tibarn: Sounds fine to me. You know, this war is going to be vicious, but at least our tribes will grow close again.
Naesala: Do you actually trust me? You might live to regret it.
Tibarn: You're trying to protect Reyson, Leanne, Rafiel, and their father, King Lorazieh. Isn't that so? As long as they're on our side, you won't betray us. I think that's enough rest and small talk, though. Let's go! 
Naesala: ...

@Conversation
Boyd: So I told him, you know? I thought it was important.
Oscar: Are you sure about this? You're always exaggerating stories to make them more impressive.
Boyd: No, I'm deadly serious! Trust me, you'd have done exactly the same thing if you were there!
???: Oh... I finally found you!
Woman: Oscar... Boyd... It's been such a long time.
Oscar: Eep!
Boyd: How did you find us?
???: She's in here!
Woman: Let go!
Gallia: What are you doing here, intruder? You're coming with me!
Woman: No, please! I'm not done yet!
Oscar: Sigh... Please let her go. She's a friend of ours.
Gallia: She is? You should have said something! 
Woman: ...Thank you, Oscar. Oh, that was scary!
Boyd: Why did you come here?
Woman: Please. You have to let me see him.
Oscar: I do?
Woman: He's here with you, right!? Let me see Rolf!
Boyd: Uh... Why should we?
Woman: What!?
Boyd: You abandoned him! You left me, Dad, and Rolf for some guy! What kind of mom does that, huh!?
Woman: I was different back then! I was so young... I didn't know how to raise two kids while looking after your bedridden father. Believe me, I tried! I tried... But it was too difficult.
Boyd: At least you and I aren't related. But, Rolf... That's different. He's your son! Yours! And you left him behind because it was "too hard"!?
Woman: I'm sorry... I've regretted my decision since the day I made it. I thought of you each and every day.
Boyd: My father died not too long after you left him. We'd have followed him, too, if my brother hadn't abandoned his knighthood in Crimea to take care of us!
Woman: I... I had no idea... Oh... I've made a terrible mistake! I'm so sorry. Forgive me.
Boyd: Leave. Now. You've got no right to see Rolf.
Woman: Boyd! Please, I'm begging you! I...I want Rolf to come back and live with me!
Boyd: Lady, you've got some serious nerve. He's our brother! You're not gonna take him away from us!
Oscar: ...Just...wait here. I'll go get Rolf.
Boyd: Oscar?!
Woman: Oscar! Thank you!
Oscar: Don't get the wrong idea. I haven't suddenly forgiven you.
Woman: Then why...?
Oscar: Because you are still Rolf's mother. Nothing in the world will change that. We'll leave it up to Rolf to decide. 
Boyd: Oscar...
Oscar: Are you sure? Are you sure you don't want to see her?
Rolf: Yeah. I don't even remember her face. She's just another stranger to me.
Oscar: Rolf...
Rolf: I have my family, Oscar. You, Boyd...everyone in the Greil Mercenaries. I don't need anyone else. Why should I let her try and change that?
Oscar: ...
Rolf: Don't look at me like that. Why do you look so sad? I'm not sad.
Oscar: Then I'll ask her to go home.
Rolf: Tell her never to come back. She's being a nuisance.
Oscar: ...Fine. 
Boyd: Rolf...
Rolf: I... I do love you, Boyd. We fight all the time, and we might not be related, but you're my real brother. Don't make me go away. You can't! I want to stay with you! I want to stay with my family!
Boyd: You little idiot. Of course you can stay! We raised you, remember? You're not some...thing, to give away to a crazy woman! You're one of us.
Rolf: ...Thanks.

@Intro
Begnion: General Levail! How did it go?
Levail: It was no use. No one would even listen to me. It makes my heart heavy. The nobles are too busy competing with one another for rewards and status to realize the danger to their lands. Begnion: Rewards? Are they crazy? The sub-humans are at their doors, and all they care about is some reward?!
Levail: They only listen to each other. No one wants to listen to me.
Begnion: General Levail, how are we going to survive this?


Ranulf: Ike! Are you in position?
Ike: Yeah. Ready when you are.
Ranulf: We'll leave the troops on the left to you beorc. Sound good?
Ike: Fine by me. We'll teach these nobles a thing or two.

Ike: All right! Move out!

@Boss
Istvan: What luck! Enemy comes in tiny numbers. Get up, comrades! We cannot let other army take reward! Crush enemy and gain glory for Lord Seliora!

%Ike,Istvan
Istvan: I am Istvan, general of Lord Seliora's royal army! You, leader of sub-human filth! State your name!
Ike: I'm Ike of the Greil Mercenaries.
Istvan: Greil Mercenaries? Hm. Never heard of them! You are just small-time bandits, yes? Argh! If we had left behind dead bodies of sub-humans, our reward would have been bigger! My lord is not being pleased with heads of bandits!
Ike: Oh, I wouldn't worry about our heads. You have no chance to win this fight. Leave while you can.

@Boss
Istvan: W-wait...! This cannot be! Our...reward...

@End
Ike: The enemy general is down! Let the fleeing soldiers go. Everyone, fall back!

Ranulf: Hey. You're done, too? That was fast.
Ike: Yeah, it was easy work. They retreated pretty quickly.
Soren: Their soldiers were well equipped and well trained, but their commanders were terrible.
Ranulf: That's lucky for us, I suppose. Things seem to be working out pretty well so far. Unless they bring in a real commander, it's only a matter of time before they wave a white flag.
Gallia: E-enemies to the south! It's the Central Army!
Ranulf: What?!


Ike: Tibarn failed in stalling them... Does that mean he's...dead?
Soren: Doubtful. I don't think there was even a battle. The Central Army has arrived too quickly.
Ranulf: Grrrr... We only know one thing for sure. The enemy now has the advantage.
Titania: There are still enemies to the north. This is quickly turning into our worst-case scenario.
Ranulf: Skrimir, we must retreat. We're in serious trouble here.
Skrimir: Show my back to beorc? Never! We will fight on like the Gallians we are!
Ranulf: Skrimir, listen to me! We must retreat. This is the Central Army we're talking about!
Skrimir: Ah, finally! Finally, we get to fight the Begnion Central Army! I have been waiting for this!
Ranulf: I can see you won't change your mind, Skrimir. All right, if it has to come to this...

Skrimir: Are you joking? You can't beat me, Ranulf. You know that.
Ranulf: I can't let you or our men die in vain. It's my job to keep you from doing anything that stupid. If I have to knock you out to keep you out of this battle, then that's what I'll do.
Skrimir: Fine. Try. 
Titania: Ike! Stop them!
Ike: No. They need to do this.


Skrimir: Do not worry about him. I might have broken some bones, but he will heal quickly.

Skrimir: My soldiers! We are leaving! Head back to base camp! 
Ike: General Skrimir...
Skrimir: We will return and regroup. It pains me, but we must. Damn it, Ranulf... He...got my leg.
Ike: But you're still willing to carry him?
Skrimir: If he doesn't rest and heal, all his little chores fall on me. I can't have that.

Begnion: Reporting, sir! The Laguz Alliance is retreating!
Zelgius: So, the enemy does not persist with the situation turns against them. I'm impressed. They're flexible and adapt quickly to a changing environment.
Begnion: Shall we pursue them?
Zelgius: No, first we will join our allies to the north. I hear they've taken heavy losses.

Levail: General Zelgius. It's an honor to meet you.
Zelgius: General Levail of Duke Gaddos's northern force, is it? Are you in command here?
Levail: No, not I. Rather... The northern force lacks any order. We do not have a central commander to direct us in battle.
Zelgius: So, each force was fighting the enemy on its own?
Levail: Quite so. Taking orders from others is beneath the nobles, I suppose.
Zelgius: How pitiful.
Levail: A sad state of affairs, yes. But now that you are here, General, the situation will be rectified.
Zelgius: Yes, one can hope.
Levail: ...So, are the rumors true?



Levail: I've heard that power in Begnion has been split between the apostle and the senators.
Zelgius: True, they do not agree on how to deal with the Laguz Alliance. However...

Zelgius: As long as there are enemies who threaten the empire, we shall fight. That is our duty, is it not?
Levail: ...Indeed.
Zelgius: Then do not trouble your mind with politics. Let the nobles worry about their games. We should focus on this war.

@Narration
The apostle Sanaki, empress of the Begnion Empire, does not wish war with the laguz and searches feverishly for a peaceful resolution. However, many imperial senators see the war not only as a means to expand their own influence but also as a convenient opportunity to exterminate the laguz once and for all. These ambitious senators meet with Vice-Minister Lekain and vigorously advocate a full-scale war.
Having seen their homeland invaded, Begnion citizens desiring peace are now few and far between. Against the apostle's wishes, Begnion's army is now fully committed to the war with the laguz.
Zelgius easily escapes the talons of the bird tribes meant to delay him and the Central Army. He arrives at the Sestohl Plains to reinforce his weakened allies.
The laguz forces are surprised by the sudden appearance of this new enemy and seek counsel from Ranulf of Gallia. Ranulf orders a retreat with all speed, thus avoiding a full-on engagement with the Central Army.
General Zelgius chooses not to pursue the fleeing Gallian army. Instead, he orders his army to hold position on the eastern banks of the Ribahn. Divided by the river, the two armies are deadlocked, able to do little more than glare at one another in hatred.

@Conversation 
Heather: So you’re Ilyana? That’s such a cute and delicate name! I’d never have guessed there’d be such a pretty girl around all these laguz! What a lucky day!
Ilyana: Sigh...
Heather: Is something wrong, Ilyana? Are you feeling sick? You look weak.
Ilyana: I’m... so hungry...
Heather: Oh, no! That’s no good. Hold on. I’ll bring some food for you right away.
Ilyana: Really? Oh, that would be wonderful...
Heather: Oh, look at that smile! So, what do you like?
Ilyana: Something delicious. I don’t particularly care what it is. I just want loads of it.
Heather: Um, all right. I guess that means you eat pretty much anything? I’ll go find somoe dupe who thinks I’m cute, and I’ll con him into cooking something! You stay put!
Ilyana: How interesting... Heather... Her name is Heather. I’ll have to remember her name. She likes to feed me.
Ike: You still eating everything in sight?
Ilyana: Ah... Hello, Ike. I haven’t seen you in a long time.
Ike: Glad to see you remember me.
Ilyana: Of course. I remember all of the mercenaries. Well, most of you, anyway. Oscar prepares such delicious meals. I remember that well enough. Oh, I can’t wait to eat his food again.
Ike: Well, I can see you haven’t changed a bit.

Aimee: Oh... It’s like a dream come true. My hero, standing right in front of me. Somebody pinch me.
Ike: Hey, if you don’t let go of my hand, I can’t pay you for anything.
Aimee: No! My darling... Let us not spoil our time together with talk of money! Speak sweetly to me, handsome.
Ike: Listen, lady. This is a shop, and I’m a customer. What’s so sweet about that?
Aimee: Oh, such cold words... My hero plays hard to get! You’re only making me more interested.
Ike: Will you let go of my hand? Please?
Aimee: Then tell me I’m beautiful! Tell me I’m more beautiful than any woman in this camp!
Ike: ...And then you’ll let go of my hand?
Aimee: Of course. I’ll even give you everything you want for free.
Ike: Oh! All right, then...
???: No, Ike! Don’t say another word!
Aimee: That voice! It’s--
Ike: C’mon, Soren. She’s going to give us everything! For free!
Soren: Nothing in life is free, Ike. Suppose you said what she asked you to say, hmm? What then? You’d hear it all over the camp. In nearby villages. Eventually, the entire country would be saying it! "Ike, hero of the Mad King’s War, is in love with Aimee the shopgirl." Rumors can quickly spin out of control.
Ike: Come off it. You’re exaggerating.
Aimee: Ooh, don’t be so sure. With my network of merchants, I’ll spread the word to the four corners of Tellius! Within half a year, everyone will know! Then you will be mine forever, Ike! You’ll have no choice at all!
Ike: Man, you go right for the neck, don’t you? All right, Soren. She’s all yours.
Soren: Yes, sir. What I do now, I do for the good of the company.
Aimee: No, Ike! Don’t go! Don’t do this to me!
Soren: Well, now. Shall we get on with our business? You’re looking more beautiful than ever, Miss Aimee. A true delight for the eyes.
Aimee: Ooo... Now you’re talking, you little lady-killer!
Soren: I know you won’t discount the goods to nothing, since it’s coming from me. So... How about you cut your prices down by three-quarters?
Aimee: Ooh... Decisions, decisions.
Soren: You’re a diamond, and other beorc only glass beads, Miss Aimee. I’ll buy more than enough to justify the discount.
Aimee: Half price, maybe.
Soren: A touch less than three-quarters, then. What do you say, rose of Tellius? O goddess of desire?
Aimee: All right, you win! Just this time, mind you. Take this.
Soren: Ah, a Silver Card. I can buy everything for half price at all of the shops?
Aimee: That’s right. Remember what I said, though. It’s a limited-time deal. I’ll have to take it away soon. Oh, and while you own this card, you won’t be able to sell your weapons as raw material. Got that?
Soren: Understood, Miss Aimee. Stay beautiful.
/***EOF***/
@Dialogue 
Janaff: As far as I can see and Ulki can hear, it seems we're the only ones left.
Tibarn: Strange. I guess only the strongest of us didn't wind up as statues.
Ike: Anyone who was in the building with us was safe, too. But everyone else was petrified...
???: Wow! There are quite a few more of you flesh creatures left than I imagined.

???: That's good. Maybe that means we'll stand a chance against her.
Sothe: Micaiah? Are you feeling all right?
???: I'm not Micaiah! How many times do I have to tell you that?!
Ike: If you're not Micaiah, then who are you?
Yune: I'm Yune. Pleased to meet you!
Sothe: Yune?! What did you do to Micaiah?!
Yune: Micaiah is here with me now. She knows that you'll never save the petrified ones without me. So, she let me use her body to talk to you.
Tibarn: All right. Let me ask you this, Yune. If you don't have a body of your own, what the heck are you?
Yune: I've been asleep inside the medallion for a long, long time. Longer than any of you can imagine. But the galdr woke me up.
Ike: Lehran's Medallion? Are you the dark god who was sealed inside it?
Yune: Hmmm..."dark god." "Dark god"... No, I'm pretty sure I'm not one of those. I am neither holy nor base, neither angel nor devil. I am...freedom. Chaos. Transformation. Future. Mystery. I am Yune.
Ike: I don't care what you're called. Was it you who turned everyone into stone?
Yune: No, that wasn't me. I haven't done much of anything. I just woke up, so I don't have that kind of power just yet. That was Ashera's doing. It was her judgment upon this world.
Sanaki: Nonsense! Holy Ashera would never harm us! She protects us at all times and guides us toward the right path.
Yune: You've got it all wrong, little meatling. Ashera is neither kind nor loving to the beings of this world. Neither is she holy nor base, angel nor devil. She is...restriction. Order. Stability. Past. Certainty. Restraint. She is Ashera.
Ike: I don't understand... Why would the goddess Ashera try to destroy us? If anyone's going to kill us all, shouldn't it be you, the dark god who was sealed inside the medallion?
Yune: You called me a dark god again! How would you like it if I called you a dark bag of organs? I don't want to talk to you anymore!
Ike: What?

Yune: Instead...I'll talk to...you. Yes! You're the one I'll talk to!
Mist: Me?
Yune: Ashera has always hated me, but I like her. You've got some of her in you. So, I'll talk to you.
Mist: Oh, OK... So... You're Yune?
Yune: That's right. I'm Yune. Ashera is order. I am chaos. We are sisters, but opposite in all things. We're linked to one another, though. When I sleep, Ashera sleeps. When I wake, Ashera wakes.
Mist: Oh, then you're...a...a goddess? I-I'm so sorry! Please forgive my insolence! I've been talking down to you like you're a little kid!
Yune: No, no, it's fine. Talk to me however you like. You don't have to stand on ceremony with me.
Mist: Well... All right. If you insist... So, you were sealed inside the medallion, but now you're inside Micaiah?
Yune: That's right.
Mist: ...And the goddess Ashera was the one who turned all the beorc and laguz into stone. Oh! Are you here to tell us how to save them? Wait, I get it! You were the one who spoke to me! You said, "Wake me with the galdr of release, not with the spirit of war."
Yune: Yes, I did! I'm so glad you understood! You're so very clever! Of course, I was hoping, by sending you that message, I would stop all of this from happening.
Mist: What do you mean?



Yune: We're running out of time, so I'll explain quickly. Long, long ago, your ancestors made a promise to Ashera. They promised they would start no wars among all the nations for at least one thousand years. If this promise was broken, then Ashera would destroy the world and try again with a new one. Despite this promise, you bone-cages kept fighting each other. Eventually, war and conflict spread throughout the world. When Ashera woke up, she cast down her judgment upon those who failed to keep her promise.

Ike: I still don't understand. Why would it make a difference whether you were woken up by the galdr or by the spirit of chaos? How were you planning to stop Ashera from passing down her judgment?
Yune: I'm not talking to you!
Ike: Oh, by all that's-- Would you stop acting like a child?
Mist: Please forgive my brother, Yune. We want to save the people who were turned to stone. We need you to tell us how. It did matter that we woke you with the galdr of release, right?
Yune: First of all, you should understand that, because of our link, waking me is the same as waking Ashera. Now, if Ashera had been awakened by the spirit of chaos, none of us would be standing here right now. By the terms of the promise, she was just supposed to destroy the world. No hesitation, no discussion. But if she was awakened by the galdr of release, she was supposed to consult with me first. She wasn't supposed to pass down her judgment until she heard from me. Ashera went ahead and turned everyone into stone without asking me. That's so unfair! I'll show her, though. I'll turn them all back somehow! The problem is that I can't do this by myself. I need your help. Will you help me?
Mist: Of course we'll help! It's strange, but I trust you, Yune. And we all want to save the people who got turned to stone!
Ike: Yes. We'll do whatever it takes.
Skrimir: That's right! We will allow nothing to stand in our way! We will fight!
Elincia: It's all so confusing... But we must do everything in our power to save the people.
Sanaki: ...To be honest, I've spent my life teaching that the goddess Ashera watches over and protects us. This is all a little hard to accept.
Yune: You don't have to believe me. You could just let her destroy the world...
Sanaki: No, I will do whatever it takes to save the people who were turned to stone. I will join the others in helping you.
Sothe: So what you're saying is that we all have to play nice and work together? Just forget about all that's happened?
Ike: Sothe, open your eyes and look around. There aren't that many people left to fix this mess. If you don't help, we can't do it. Besides, I would think saving the world is something we could all agree on.
Sothe: You're right, Commander. All of this is the result of our war. I guess there's not much reason for flag-waving on either side. First thing we have to do is...unpetrify everyone. And, well... I, uh... I'm actually kind of relived. At least I don't have to worry about fighting you anymore.
Ike: I wasn't looking forward to that matchup, either.
Yune: It's settled, then! How should we begin? I know! Let's divide the army into three teams. I'm pretty sure that Ashera is going to notice what we're up to...
Ike: Dividing us up is smart. It reduces the risk of everyone getting killed at once.
Yune: We have to hurry. I can feel Ashera's power building.
Ike: It's all over if we get turned to stone, too. All right, everyone, it's up to us!
Yune: What's your name?
Ike: I'm Ike.
Yune: All right, Ike. You won't call me a dark god ever again, will you?
Ike: Not if you don't like it. Can I call you Yune?
Yune: I would like that. I guess I forgive you, then. Oh, I know! As a sign of my forgiveness, I'll make sure that you can get to your destination safely. I can't do it for everyone because it's a bit exhausting for me, but... Hold still and close your eyes.
Ike: I'm ready.



Yune: How do you feel?
Ike: ...Strong. Like I can take on anyone.
Yune: Wow, you're very confident for a being that can die! Let's see... You go with this team.
Sothe: I'm going with you. I'm not leaving your--Micaiah's--side.
Yune: ...Fine. Micaiah says that's what she wants, too.
Sothe: Let me talk to her!
Yune: Not right now. You'll have plenty of time to talk on the road, all right?  Hey, you're with this team over here.
Sothe: ...Damn it.

Yune: Each team will take a different route, but your destination is the same. It's the Tower of Guidance that stands in the middle of the land you named Begnion. Go there at once. ...I hope to see you all there. I'll be waiting.
Ike: Waiting? Aren't you coming with us?
Yune: I'll see you at the tower.

Ike: A bird?
Sothe: Yune! Then she must be--

Sothe: Micaiah!
Micaiah: ...Oh. Hello, Sothe.
Sothe: You're back! I was so worried.
Ike: Hey, if that bird was Yune...where did she go?
Micaiah: I don't know where, exactly, but she said she must go look for...something.
Ike: Leaving us by ourselves? What's she thinking?
Tibarn: At least we know what we have to do. Let's move out for the tower.
Ena: May I have a moment before we leave? Prince Kurth has requested that I pass these out to the herons.


Ike: Those are sending stones, right?
Ena: Correct. Fortunately for us, each heron has been assigned to a different team.

Ena: King Tibarn, would you give this one to Prince Reyson?
Tibarn: That's ideal. We can each communicate with the other teams using the stones. Good idea.
Ena: Queen Nailah, please give this one to Prince Rafiel.
Nailah: I will.
Ena: And the last one is for Princess Leanne.
Sothe: She's on my team. I'll give it to her.

Tibarn: All right, we're ready to go. See you at the tower!
Ike: Yeah, see you at the tower... Hopefully.


Ranulf: Ike!

Ranulf: Since we're on different teams, I need to tell you something before we go. Something important. It's General Zelgius. Next time you see him, Ike, use caution. He's your enemy.
Ike: What do you mean?
Ranulf: He's the one. He's the Black Knight.
Ike: What?!
Ranulf: Zelgius is the Black Knight. I became certain of it when we crossed the river.
Ike: It can't be...
Ranulf: I wasn't going to tell you until I had hard proof, but it looks like we're out of time. Sorry I didn't tell you before.
Ike: General Zelgius is the one who killed my father?
Ranulf: I doubt that Zelgius has been turned to stone. Be careful, Ike. You might run into him. ...Good luck to you. 

Ike: Zelgius... The Black Knight...

@Opening
Ashera, the Goddess of Order, has awakened. Her righteous fury has turned nearly all of the warring soldiers to stone.
Yune, the Goddess of Chaos, has also awakened. Freed from Lehran's Medallion, she counsels Ike and his companions to split into three groups and make for the Tower of Guidance.
Micaiah is joined by her constant, companion, Sothe. General Skrimir also accompanies her, along with Naesala and Princess Leanne. Apostle Sanaki rounds out the group, traveling with her chief bodyguard, Sigrun, and others.
Micaiah's company decides on a southern route and sets out for Begnion. Save for the sounds of the local wildlife, their path is eerily silent and empty. It's as though they have stepped into a vast and desolate monument to the war.

@Intro
Lekain: Blessed servants of the goddess! I bring dire news. The dark god has awakened and made its wrath manifest in stone. All of us were turned to hard rock by its evil power, yet we stand here today, made flesh again by the power of the goddess! Why is that? It is because ware the chosen ones! Go forth, Disciples of Order! Deliver her divine judgment upon the dark god and those who worship it!

Sigrun: All right, everyone. Let's spend the night in this town. Please be sure to get some rest and prepare for tomorrow.

@Conversation 
Sanaki: Excuse me.
Naesala: Oh, it's you.
Sanaki: I saw you having an argument with General Skrimir.
Naesala: Oh, that? Yeah. That happens sometimes.
Sanaki: I know you had no choice but to betray the Laguz Alliance. If you wish, I can speak to him about it.
Naesala: No. Stay out of it. Whatever the circumstances, what I did was unacceptable. The pieces can fall where they may.
Sanaki: You'd carry the burden of your crime alone to protect your people? That's very selfless of you.
Naesala: Of course I'd take the blame! My first priority is my people. As long as they're safe, it doesn't matter one whit what the rest of the world thinks of me.
Sanaki: You indeed are a good king to your people. I have no doubts of that. I wonder, will the history say I was a good empress for Begnion?
Naesala: The people of Begnion rose up and overthrew the senate for you. Isn't that proof enough that you're a good empress?
Sanaki: That's only because they thought that I was the apostle. But now...
Naesala: You're worried over the galdr of release?
Sanaki: Yes. That song... It can only be sung by the direct descendents of Altina--the first settlers of Begnion. Why was that girl able to sing it? Moreover, why couldn't I?
Naesala: You know, you could just ask her directly.
Sanaki: I can't work up the courage. It doesn't matter who she is. All I know is that she possesses all the powers which I lack. I'm... I'm frightened of the truth.

@Intro
Micaiah: Sothe! Wake everyone and have them gather at the square! Enemies are on the way!
Sothe: Wha--huh? All right, I'm on it. 

Sigrun: Lady Micaiah! Has the enemy arrived already?
Micaiah: Not yet. But they're coming. I'm sure of it.
Skrimir: I can't smell troops or weapons. How can you be certain?
Micaiah: I don't know who they are or their exact numbers, but the enemy army is massive!
Skrimir: Hmm...
Micaiah: l know it sounds strange, but I swear it's true! You must believe me!
Skrimir: No one doubts your gift, Micaiah. I will not ignore the words of one who has spoken with the voice of a goddess.
Micaiah: Oh...
Naesala: Micaiah, it looks like you were right. We have guests.


Skrimir: Leave them to me! The weak among you should hide, for the battle will be fierce!
Sigrun: Empress Sanaki. We should leave the fighting to General Skrimir. I will take you someplace safe.
Sanaki: No. I will stay and fight with the others.
Sigrun: With all due respect, Empress, I cannot allow it! What if you are injured?!
Sanaki: If Micaiah, an untrained girl from the streets of Daein, is fighting, then I shall stand my ground as well.
Sigrun: Empress...
Naesala: You can't win an argument with royalty. But don't worry about her. I'll look after the apostle.
Sigrun: That is a kind offer, but I must decline. It is the first and most sacred duty of the Holy Knights to protect the apostle.
Sanaki: It looks like the enemy is about to take this argument out of our hands. They're here.
Skrimir: Do you beorc ever stop talking? Take your positions! Now!

Yuma: Here are the minions of the dark god! Go forth, Disciples, and deliver the holy judgment of the goddess! Destroy them!
Sanaki: You! All of you. You are all Begnion citizens! I'm so relieved you are all safe.
Naesala: Sanaki, be careful! I don't know that they're going to be pleased to see you.
Sanaki: What do you--
Order: Minions of the dark god! We are the Disciples of Order, led by blessed Lord Lekain. We have been charged by the goddess Ashera to cleanse your taint from the world!
Order: Death to the tainted souls! Let none escape!
Sigrun: Empress Sanaki, please stay back. These traitors must have sided with the senate during the coup.
Order: Apostle Sanaki is a fraud! Any apostle who defies the edicts of the goddess is an enemy to the people!
Sanaki: What?! No, I--
Sigrun: Silence, betrayers of the empire! How dare you accuse the empress! Treason can only be punished by death!

@Boss
Yuma: Die! Die!

Yuma: How...could this have happened? How could betrayers of the goddess's word defeat her appointed champions?

%Sanaki,Yuma
Yuma: Death to the false apostle! Show her the punishment for her wicked, deceitful acts!
Sanaki: I...I have not deceived you! I am the true... I am the true apostle...

%Micaiah,Yuma
Yuma: You are the dark god made flesh! The source of all evil!
Micaiah: Don't speak that way about Yune! She is not a dark god!

%Skrimir,Yuma
Yuma: Death to the filthy sub-humans! Despicable, rabid beasts!
Skrimir: Yes! Feed my rage! Make me hate you. Give me reason to crush your bones in my jaws...

%Naesala,Yuma
Yuma: Black-winged demon, eater of carrion! Prepare to receive the goddess’s judgment!
Naesala: Hmm...how colorful.

%Sigrun,Yuma
Yuma: The dark god breeds foul corruption through the words of its false apostle! Her soul is a blackened, withered husk, and we shall banish it from this world!
Sigrun: As long as I draw breath, you will not lay hands on Apostle Sanaki.

%Tanith,Yuma
Yuma: Traitorous knight of the false apostle! Prepare to be cleansed!
Tanith: Oathbreakers! You are servants of the empire and the apostle! The Holy Knights will teach you the meaning of loyalty.

@End
Skrimir: Hmph. They were strong...for beorc. Has the senate held back its elite forces?
Sigrun: No, I knew a few of them by face. Some of these soldiers were new recruits. I can't imagine how they could have fought against us so fiercely.
???: Simple. They were protected by Ashera.

Yune: I sent a message to Micaiah about the impending attack, then returned here as fast as I could. Ashera freed the petrified soldiers who would pledge loyalty to her. By themselves, they weren't a threat to skin puppets as strong as you, so she blessed their armor and weapons. Now they are worthy to be her true disciples, and their power will be stronger as we get closer to her. The battle will only get more difficult from here.
Sigrun: Their weapons and armor are blessed by the goddess herself?
Naesala: Is that similar to the Black Knight's armor, or Ike's sword Ragnell?
Yune: It's the same idea, yes. The Disciples' blessings were much weaker, because there were a lot of them. Still, it makes them a lot more powerful than they originally were. I'd like to bless you all with protection, too, but I haven't been awake long enough to wield that kind of power. Sorry about that.
Skrimir: Ahhh...that was how they were able to stand against us.
Yune: Poor souls... When they were turned back from stone, they probably thought they were the chosen ones or something. No one is good enough for her, though. When she's done using them against us, they'll all be stone creatures again.
Sothe: Micaiah! There you are!
Yune: Oh, it's her shadow again! I should go. All right, everyone. I'll see you later. Good luck! 
Sothe: Micaiah?
Micaiah: Unh...! What?
Naesala: Hey, glad to have you back. We should tell the other teams what happened here.
Sothe: Hm? 
Skrimir: I am going back to sleep. I dislike being awakened so early in the morning. Even if it is for battle. 

Sothe: Yune was here again? I don't like that she keeps taking over your body. She should stick to being that stupid bird.
Micaiah: Please don't say mean things about her. She's like an older sister to me.
Sothe: Your older sister is a dark god?
Micaiah: I finally understand now. Remember the voice that used to warn me about impending danger? That was Yune's voice. I finally realized it this morning. Even as she slept, she watched over us. Yune loves beorc and laguz with all her heart. I can feel it when she speaks through me.
Sothe: Then why do people call her the dark god?
Micaiah: I don't know... But she doesn't like that name. It hurts her when you call her that.
Sothe: Sorry... I won't call her that again.
Yune: You mean it? Then I forgive you!
Sothe: ...Hey! Is that you, Yune?
Yune: "Sorry... I won't call her that again." Why can't you be that nice with me? To be honest, it makes me a little jealous. But that's all right, I guess. I know that Micaiah needs you. That's why I can't let you die. Here, come closer to me.
Sothe:  Hey, what are you doing?
Yune: Don't be so jumpy. I'm giving you the power to protect Micaiah.



Sothe: Wow. Amazing... I feel incredible, like I could arm wrestle Skrimir.
Yune: Good... Always stay by Micaiah's side. 
Sothe: Yune?
Micaiah: No, it's me again. Disappointed?
Sothe: Never. But I do wish she had at least let me thank her.
Micaiah: It just would have embarrassed her. You know, you two are very much alike. You're both very stubborn.
Sothe: ...
Micaiah: I'm just teasing you, Sothe. Anyway, did you hear what the enemy said before the battle?
Sothe: Yeah... They called out Lekain by name. No mistake about it. That means he's still alive, and probably not petrified, since they said he was their leader. I suppose we'll run across him once we get closer to the tower. That'll be our big chance.
Micaiah: Right. We must break the blood pact. No matter what it takes. Of course, our first goal is to save everyone from the goddess's judgment. But we have to break the pact while they're all stone. If we don't, we may save the world, but still lose Daein.

Sigrun: ...We seem to have missed our chance to speak with her. What a remarkable girl. Lady Micaiah can hear the voice of the goddess Yune and learn of impending danger. She is much like you, Empress Sanaki.
Sanaki: ...Let us head back.
Sigrun: Are you sure? You said before that it was imperative you speak with Lady Micaiah...
Sanaki: It's not important. Forget it.
Sigrun: Empress...

@Narration
Ike's route leads his group to the west. He is accompanied by his old comrades, deputy commander Titania and master tactician Soren. Also with him are Nailah, Queen of Hatari, the heron prince Rafiel, Prince Kurthnaga of Goldoa, and his loyal subject Ena. Having received a warning from Micaiah about the Disciples of Order, Ike and company stay alert and wary as they cross into Seliora.

@Conversation 
Micaiah: Ahh...
Sothe: What’s wrong, Micaiah? Are you still tired?
Micaiah: No, I’m fine. The air is nice out here. It’s calm, quiet even. I don’t remember the last time it was this quiet. It’s almost relaxing, isn’t it? I hate to say it, but I feel like the world is back to the way it ought to be, finally. I know that sounds horrible. But that’s how I honestly feel. Like all debts have been settled, and everything is properly arranged.
Sothe: Hmm. I think I understand what you’re trying to say.
Micaiah: Sothe... I’m scared. I don’t want to get used to this. It’s too comfortable. Like our mother’s come home.
Sothe: A mother who’d smother her children in order to protect them.

Micaiah: Hello, Muston. I would like to purchase some weapons.
Muston: Ah, Micaiah! Good timing.
Micaiah: You have something for me, then?
Muston: Indeed I do, missy. Look at this!
Micaiah: That’s a thunder tome. The most powerful of its kind, too! How did you get it?
Muston: That’s a trade secret! But it’s the best thing I ever acquired for sale, and that’s a fact.
Micaiah: How much are you asking for it?
Muston: You want it?
Micaiah: Yes. Yune told me that the goddess Ashera would do everything in her power to stop us. I have no idea what to expect, but I’m certain the battle ahead won’t be easy. We have to be prepared. For anything.
Muston: I know. You can have it for free.
Micaiah: What? But why?
Muston: It’s not like we have any other customers. Everyone else has been turned to stone. Listen, Micaiah. I still have hope. We have your goddess and an army of heroes on our side. I believe in you--all of you. You’ll put the world right again, I’m sure of it.
Micaiah: I believe that, too. Thank you, Muston. With your tome in my hand and your hope in my heart, I’m sure we’ll succeed.
Muston: Good luck, Maiden of Dawn.

Skrimir: Hmmm... I’m confused.
Micaiah: Is something wrong, General Skrimir?
Skrimir: Here, look at this!
Micaiah: It’s a satori sign. What about it?
Skrimir: I found a patch of ground that was emitting light, so I started digging. This was what I found.
Micaiah: Oh, so that’s it...
Skrimir: You buried it?
Micaiah: No, but I saw a vision in a dream. Rays of light fell from the sky, wriggling into the ground and burying themselves.
Skrimir: Ah. So maybe there are more?
Micaiah: Yes... I think so. Somewhere...
/***EOF***/
@Intro
Micaiah: We have to go back to the desert. We still have something we need to do.
Sothe: It'd be great if it were to find Ashnard's son. I'm burning up out here.
Micaiah: I'm not sure what it is. I see a lot of images, stacked on top of each other. It's hard to see what they all are. There's danger, battles, and terrible sadness, but also...hope. Whatever our destiny is, I know we'll find it in the desert. Let's go.
Sothe: I understand, Micaiah. I'll tell everyone to make ready.

Sothe: We've already been north, where we met Prince Rafiel and his party. That leaves east or south... Which way?
Micaiah: What is it, Volug? Is something wrong? Volug says he senses beorc to the south. A lot of beorc.
Sothe: That settles it then. We'll head south.

Tauroneo: Hmph!

Zihark: Impressive as ever, General Tauroneo. However, we can't hold out forever. We are seriously outnumbered. It's time we put these vermin in their place. Are you ready, Jill?
Jill: Just give the word!
Zihark: All right then, let's get 'em!

Sothe: Who could the Begnion soldiers be attacking out here in the middle of nowhere?
Micaiah: Whoever it is, we have to help them!

@Battle
Sothe: wait a moment. Those people fighting the Begnion soldiers... It couldn't be... That white armor... Only certain generals were allowed to wear it. I may very well know that soldier. Micaiah: Really? Well then, all the more reason to help them. Let's hurry!
Micaiah: Really? Well then, all the more reason to help them. Let’s hurry!

@Battle-Talk 
%Ilyana,Zihark
Ilyana: Ah...
Zihark: Ilyana! It’s been a while.
Ilyana: Too long, Zihark...
Zihark: So you remember my name!
Ilyana: How could I forget you, Zihark? Why, I think of you often! You treated me to food...glorious food... On 23 separate occasions! But who’s counting?
Zihark: Apparently, you are. And now, might I request something in return?
Ilyana: Well, um, yes. What exactly did you have in mind?
Zihark: For you, something sweet! You join our merry band, and together, we fight for Daein’s freedom. I’m counting on you, my dear. You wouldn’t want to disappoint me, would you?
Ilyana: ...Ah...er... What?

%Sothe,Jill
Sothe: Hey, Jill? Jill Fizzart? It is you, isn’t it?
Jill: Sothe?!
Sothe: Haven’t seen you since the war ended.
Jill: That does bring back memories... What are you doing out here in the middle of nowhere?
Sothe: We heard that King Ashnard’s orphan was in need of soldiers. We came to find out if it’s true.
Jill: The prince? He’s just inside the fort.
Sothe: Then it’s true?
Jill: It is. Will you help us protect him?
Sothe: Of course.

%Sothe,Tauroneo
Sothe: General Tauroneo!
Tauroneo: Well, if it isn't our little Sothe! I'd never have thought to see you here!
Sothe: General, these ruins you're defending... Do they hold hope for Daein?
Tauroneo: They do. In fact, these walls hold what may well be Daein's only hope.
Sothe: I see. Then we must protect this place at all costs.
Tauroneo: Indeed.

%Sothe,Zihark
Sothe: Need a hand?
Zihark: Sothe? Where did you come from? What are you doing here?
Sothe: Hello, Zihark. I see you’re fighting Begnion soldiers. I assume you’re siding with Daein here?
Zihark: That’s right. This is my homeland. These are my people.
Sothe: Oh, really? I didn’t know you were from Daein.
Zihark: Yep, I’m a Daein, through and through.
Sothe: All that time we fought together, and I never knew.
Zihark: That’s because I never told you. At any rate, let’s rejoin the fight. We can talk later.
Sothe: Ah, yes...

@Boss
Wystan: You're a tenacious bunch, I'll grant you. Daein isn't known for winning its wars... So why do you keep trying?

Wystan: Absurd... One must not...meet failure...against the tattered remnants...of a conquered...coun...try...

%Micaiah,Wystan
Wystan: Come to help the helpless? A dainty little flower like you is hardly worth the effort! Well, do your worst.
Micaiah: What is Begnion doing out here in the desert? Is there something or someone in these ruins that you're interested in?
Wystan: That's none of your business, little girl. We'll slash our way in no matter what anybody else wants!

@End
Sothe: General Tauroneo! Zihark and Jill, too. I haven't seen you since the war ended three years ago. Who would've thought we'd meet again in such a desolate place?
Tauroneo: Sothe, you've grown. I hardly recognized you.
Sothe: We have a lot of catching up to do, but for now, I'll just make introductions. This is Micaiah...

Izuka: And who have we here? Hmmm?
Sothe: Step back. Who are you?
Tauroneo: Lord Izuka, there's no need for concern. This young man is Sothe. We know him well. Sothe, may I introduce Lord Izuka. He is advisor and close confidant to Prince Pelleas, Ashnard's son.
Sothe: Micaiah! Did you hear that? The prince IS here. Still, I can't believe we ran into you three--of all people--guarding the prince. What a lucky coincidence. General Tauroneo, we came here because we heard the prince was gathering forces in the desert. We want to help you in your efforts. Will you let us join you?
Tauroneo: Certainly. Daein needs all the courage we can muster. Let us join forces.
Izuka: See here! What do you think you're doing?! You can't just ignore me and start making decisions! These people are suspicious, verrry suspicious. You're all Begnion spies, aren't you? Come now, tell the truth!
Sothe: We're the Dawn Brigade. We'd never work for those filthy curs!
Izuka: The Dawn Brigade! But how? Then, perhaps the girl... No! Could it be? Are you the Silver-Haired Maiden? Do you have the healing touch of Sacrifice? 
Micaiah: Excuse me!
Sothe: Take your hands off her! 
Izuka: What a coincidence! Or is it fate? Or maybe it's my unrivaled skill as a revolutionary organizer? With the Silver-Haired Maiden at our side, we'll surely win over the people of Daein! And then...yes! Incite scattered rebel movements, mm-hm, and then, further...the future of...change...
Sothe: Is he...touched in the head?
Izuka: Oh, my, but yes. I'll beckon to...no, demand that the vicious scalawags...surrender! Perfect! I am a genius! Come, come, my dear maiden! You must meet the prince! 
Tauroneo: Goddess help me, that man could try the patience of a stone.
Sothe: Hmmm...

Izuka: Look here! Before you stands the one and only, the grand Prince Pelleas, true-blooded son of the king of Daein. And here we have the consort and queen of our late King Ashnard, Lady Almedha. And look at you! You're standing? Did the desert dry out your brains? Kneel ye before these royal personages!
Pelleas: It's all right, Izuka. Please, don't stand on ceremony. I didn't know I was a prince until very recently. So, really, I'm not used to any of this.
Micaiah: What do you mean?
Pelleas: Until a half year ago--that is, until Izuka found me--I was raised as a normal commoner. To be frank, it still doesn't feel real to me. That I...I myself could be the son of King Ashnard. It's a little overwhelming.
Almedha: Don't talk nonsense, darling. You are my own sweet, sweet son, Prince Pelleas, yes... I'll never let you be parted from me, no, never ever again...
Izuka: Ahem! Enough of the pleasantries, then. Shall we get down to business? Well then, Micaiah of the Dawn Brigade. I henceforth appoint thee to the post of Vice-General of the Daein Liberation Army!
Sothe: Excuse me?! What do you mean by that?
Micaiah: Wait a moment! I appreciate the offer, Izuka, but I'm afraid I cannot accept. I have no war experience and no knowledge of battle tactics. Daein needs a general with both.
Izuka: Are you not a member of the heroic Dawn Brigade, whose conquests precede them?! Do you not want to save the people of Daein?! Serve the prince, and you can step out of the shadows and face the empire boldly, without shame! Why hesitate?
Sothe: This is a thinly veiled scheme...and I see right through it. You just want Micaiah to serve as a figurehead for your revolution.
Izuka: Is that a problem?
Sothe: Yes, that's a problem! She's not some fancy stoneware for you to set on display. If you're going to do this...then I cannot sign on.
Micaiah: Exactly.
Pelleas: Micaiah, please, wait! That isn't what we meant. You're not the only one who knows nothing about battle. I don't either. But if I don't act, the devastation of Daein will grow ever worse. So, I have to be brave. Please, I'm asking you to do the same, Micaiah... For the sake of the future of Daein, will you join our cause?
Micaiah: ...Prince Pelleas...I will.
Sothe: Micaiah?!
Pelleas: Thank you.
Micaiah: And in return, will you ensure, beyond a shadow of a doubt, that Daein will be freed from the rule of the Begnion Empire?
Pelleas: I promise.
Micaiah: I trust in your word.

Sothe: I can't believe you!
Micaiah: Sothe, why are you so angry about this?
Sothe: You have to ask? You know we can't live in the public eye. Doing something that will deliberately make you stand out... I'm just saying, it isn't like you, Micaiah.
Micaiah: When we were separated during the war, you changed, Sothe. And I changed too. I want to protect Daein more than anything. Our people must be saved, and if I can help in that effort, I will.
Sothe: So much so that you'll risk your life and sacrifice who you are?
Micaiah: Yes. But that isn't all. Prince Pelleas cherishes the same wish that I do. I can feel it. Deep in his heart, he wants to save Daein. If we work together, I know that we can do it.
Sothe: And you don't hear that voice we spoke of? The voice that warns you of impending danger?
Micaiah: It's all right, Sothe. The visions I see spreading out before us... most of them shine with hope.
Sothe: All right. I trust you. More importantly, I believe in you. I won't resist anymore. But let me just say one thing.
Micaiah: What?
Sothe: I will protect you.
Micaiah: I know that! Why do you think you need to say it?
Sothe: I just wanted to make sure you knew. 
Micaiah: ...Thank you, Sothe.

@Narration
Three years past, Daein mustered all of its formidable military might and cut a bloody swath through neighboring Crimea in a sudden invasion. Daein was defeated, however, and the dreams of its ruler, Mad King Ashnard, died with him.
Ashnard's son, Pelleas, possesses a gentle sincerity that is a bright counterpoint to his late father's violence and duplicity. Ill-suited though he seems for these troubled times, his presence is a welcome sight of Micaiah's eyes. Pelleas, declared rightful heir to the throne, finds his name becoming a rallying cry for Daein. At his side is the only person he believes can lead his Liberation Army...the Silver-Haired Maiden.

@Conversation 
Sothe: Hey, Micaiah. I sold the treasures we took from the ruins. We have traveling cash now.
Micaiah: How did we do?
Sothe: We have 10,000 in gold.
Micaiah: Great! That’ll help a lot.
Sothe: Maybe. We could use more.
Micaiah: Sothe, 10,000 is plenty. We just need enough money to live on. More than that, and the soul becomes impoverished.
Sothe: I know, I know. We should be rich of heart and poor of pocket... Me, I just follow your orders.

Nailah: So, you’re returning to the desert?
Micaiah: Yes, we must go back.
Rafiel: My dear...
Nailah: Yes, Rafiel, I know. Micaiah, I have a question. How can we help you in this fight?
Micaiah: What? But...
Nailah: I know you probably don’t want to be seen with laguz. But we cannot just sit on our paws, so to speak, while our allies are in danger.
Micaiah: I appreciate that, but...
Nailah: No? Fine. Sorry to bother you.
Micaiah: No, no. It’s not what you think. Please don’t apologize. It’s just that...
Nailah: What is it, Volug?
Volug: ...
Nailah: I see. That is a good idea.
Rafiel: Oh, yes. I agree. That’s a wonderful idea.
Micaiah: Yes? Volug? What’s going on?
Nailah: Micaiah, it will not seem so strange if you travel into the desert with this dog at your side, will it?
Micaiah: What?!
Nailah: As you know, we laguz fight only in our shifted forms. However, we can’t remain in that state for very long. It is too exhausting. Volug, however, has halfshifted. When he does this, he can remain in beast form all day long.
Micaiah: Queen Nailah, I appreciate you help–
Nailah: He is not as strong in this transitional form. Even so, he is still more than a match for any beorc.
Micaiah: How could you call Volug a dog?!
Nailah: I know. He’s not as friendly as a dog. And I don’t know if he’s housebroken. But he can fight!
Micaiah: That is not what I meant.
Nailah: Micaiah. We wish you good luck. Volug, guard her well.
Rafiel: Do be careful.
Micaiah: I will. Thank you. Volug, is she always so...blunt?

Micaiah: So, you are an old friend of Laura’s?
Aran: Yes. I’m afraid I must apologize for my poor choice in employers.
Micaiah: Please don’t worry about it. After all, you saved us.
Aran: When I saw Laura, I simply couldn’t stand by any longer.
Laura: Thank you, Aran.
Aran: I’ve been meaning to ask you, Laura. What’s become of your church? I’d heard that, since the occupation, most of Daein’s clergy have been excommunicated and sent to prisons. I know that the empire sent its own replacements. Was your church affected?
Laura: No, thankfully. Our congregation would always say... "The clergy of the empire wouldn’t even consider coming to a dingy church in a backwater village like this! You’re been spared, Minister!" Ha ha ha... We extended our prayer time to thank the goddess for saving our church.
Aran: Ah... I see.
Laura: Oh, Aran. I meant to tell you, now that you’re one of us, you’ll have to become a bandit.
Micaiah: Excuse me?
Aran: I’m sorry...a bandit?
Laura: There’s really no need to worry. The Dawn Brigade bandits have virtuous people like Micaiah in their ranks.
Aran: Er... Okaaaay...
Micaiah: No, we’re not ban--
Laura: But always remember, Aran. We must strive above all else to be honorable bandits. For the future of Daein.
Aran: Uh... All right...
Micaiah: ...Bandits?

Edward: Oh, man... Where is this prince, anyway? I wanna go home to Nevassa.
Leonardo: A long-lost prince of Daein? Who even knows if he really exists...
Edward: Of course he does!
Leonardo: How do you know? Do you have any proof?
Edward: Simple. Micaiah told us we should look for the prince. So, it’s gotta be true!
Leonardo: Yeah, you’re right. Her farsight is always spot on.
Edward: Even if we don’t find him, there’s no need to worry... ’cause I’m here!
Leonardo: Excuse me?
Edward: Since we left Nevassa, my swordsmanship has pretty much improved tenfold! By the time we get back home, I’ll be invincible! I’ll kick those tyrants out of Daein with my own two hands and one sharp blade!
Leonardo: It’s great to have a dream, Edward...but you should wake up now!
Edward: Are you saying I’m not good enough?!
Leonardo: No. I’m saying there’s a limit to how much one person can achieve. I’m going to do the best I can, but... It doesn’t matter how strong the two of us become. We can’t change what’s going on in Daein. Not by ourselves.
Edward: Well, duh! I’m just saying it’s a goal! You know? Just something to work toward.
Leonardo: Sure. But you shouldn’t say such things lightly. It might be just a joke to you. It’s not to me.
Edward: Wow. Sorry.
Leonardo: Ya, well. So am I. I didn’t mean to get so serious. All the fighting...it just gets to me sometimes.
Nolan: Hey, boys. What is this, a funeral? What’s with all the doom and gloom?
Edward: Nolan.
Nolan: I couldn’t help but overhear, and I have a little to say on the subject. You’re right, each of us can only achieve so much on our own. But you boys are still young. Don’t let go of your hopes and dreams. Not yet, anyway.
Leonardo: But...
Nolan: Listen, there’s no way we can free Daein by ourselves. But we CAN find King Ashnard’s lost son and fight against the empire under Daein’s banner. If we gather our strength, we stand a better chance of freeing our motherland. Now then, how’s that for a little motivation to get your sorry backsides into training harder?
Edward: That’s great! Thanks, Nolan. You’re pretty smart for an old man!
Nolan: Hey, now... None of that, or I’ll show you what an old man can do! Leonardo, are you feeling better?
Leonardo: Yes, sir. Thank you, Nolan. I guess age does make you wiser.
Nolan: How old do you think I am, anyway? Now I’m getting depressed...
/***EOF***/
@Intro
Daein: Begnion is attacking Nevassa!
Daein: No! My parents live there! They're far too old and frail to defend themselves!
Daein: My wife and kids are there, too! It's that heartless murderer, Jarod... He just wants us to suffer to the bitter end.

Micaiah: Prince Pelleas! We have to do something. We must liberate Nevassa and save the people form this brutal attack!
Izuka: Is there no end to your lunacy?! The apostle's envoy is nearly here! Why be rash when victory is so close!
Sothe: People are dying, and Nevassa has already suffered more than enough. Do you really expect us not to lift a finger to help?
Micaiah: If you will not help, we will go by ourselves. Again. 
Izuka: Wait! Where are you going?! You can't take the laguz and rush off on some harebrained mission again!
Micaiah: Can't I?
Izuka: Of course not, you idiot girl. You've already been far too impulsive, acting without the prince's consent. And do you think I do not see what has happened? Your name has been raised to lavish heights among the Daein people--your name, and yours alone! Why, even our own soldiers heap their praise on you like sugar on berries, sparing not a thought for their prince!
Micaiah: Oh...

Jarod: Hah! The prince! He's a sham, a travesty, a clod of mud no amount of polishing could shine. The real jewel--whose radiance attracts the people like moths to flame--is you, Priestess. And so I shall steal you and extinguish Daein's light of hope!!

Izuka: And then, even once their rightful king is crowned, the people will still await the approval of their precious Priestess of Dawn. Why, if we are not careful, some calculating wretches might decide they would rather see a priestess on the throne instead of a king! And once again, this country will be torn apart, all because of your glory-hounding disregard for our prince's command!
Pelleas: Please, Izuka...
Izuka: Come to think of it...perhaps our "Priestess" here has been planning this all along! Pretending to help the prince...when in truth she seeks to wear the crown herself!
Sothe: Stop your tongue, worm, or my knife will stop it for you. The only one who seems too hungry for power here is you--
???: That's enough!!

Pelleas: Izuka, Micaiah does not deserve any such attack on her character. She is pure and noble, and I... I am inadequate.
Izuka: Have her actions poisoned your mind too, my prince?!
Pelleas: Since we met, Micaiah has led every battle, even joining the soldiers on the battlefield. Not so with me. I...cannot defend my people. How could our people not rally around her? They see her fighting, throwing her lot in with their own. They respect her. That said, things cannot remain as they are. Izuka is right to worry about my standing. I need to earn my people's respect. Therefore... Therefore, I must take action.

Pelleas: Um... Soldiers of the Liberation Army! Heed my-- No, no... Hear my words! I am Pelleas, true prince of Daein.
Daein: Yes, we know who you are, milord! We ought to by now!
Pelleas: And so, uh... So... ...
Daein: ...Is he...all right?
Micaiah:  Prince...

Micaiah: Sir Knight?

Pelleas: ...And so... ...And so, beloved friends and comrades dear. With thanks to you, our capital lies close! And if we do not act, if we turn back, the war still ends with us the victors proud, and Daein's rule still falls back to our hands. And if we choose to fight and free this town, we may enrage the empire once again. Thus Daein's fortune turns to sorrow swift. But while I speak, Nevassa's hardship grows! Our brothers suffer, our sisters die, and... I shall not... I... I cannot ignore this tragedy. No man can, and certainly no prince... I cannot look away when my people suffer. And so I ask... I ask you all. Please, will you join me?!

Daein: Long live the prince!
Daein: Long live Prince Pelleas!
Daein: Long live Daein! It's time to save our country!

Pelleas: Ah...

Micaiah: Very well, my prince. We are at your service.
Pelleas: My army is arrayed and waiting. Be well. And...no overly heroic risks, please.
Micaiah: Company, at attention! Our objective is to save the town and take the keep! Now, move out!

Begnion: The rebels are on the move!
Jarod: Mm. And a good thing too. What is more honorable than a death fraught with purpose?

Micaiah: I wonder where Jarod is?
Jarod: Listen up, all of you. This is our last chance to die as we've lived. As proud soldiers of the empire. If we survive this fight, imprisonment and a hushed-up execution await us. If we run from this fight, dishonor and pursuit will dog our miserable days. So I say, let's give those Daein curs a fight to remember, and let the glory of our deaths light our way! We've lived as proud soldiers of the empire! Let us die as proud soldiers of the empire! Now GO!
Micaiah: That shout...that's Jarod! For Daein's sake, this time I swear I will put an end to him.

@Battle-Talk 
%Black Knight,Micaiah
Black Knight: Maiden, take no risks upon yourself. You are the heart of this army, the soul that inspires us. We must not lose you. Leave this battle to me, and stay back.
Micaiah: Thank you for your concern, Sir Knight. But I am going to fight. You and everyone else are putting your lives on the line. I will not shirk my duty.
Black Knight: You...are much...like her.
Micaiah: What?
Black Knight: ...Nothing.
Micaiah: ...

%Micaiah,Black Knight
Micaiah: Pardon, Sir Knight. I wanted to thank you. Thank you for fighting beside us.
Black Knight: No thanks are needed. I do nothing more than fulfill my duty.
Micaiah: When our fighting is done...will you remain in Daein?
Black Knight: ...
Micaiah: Never mind. It's none of my business. It's only... If you were here with us, we could take heart in--
Black Knight: I may...take leave of Daein.
Micaiah: Oh! But why?
Black Knight: More than this, I cannot say. Forgive me.

%Sothe,Black Knight
Sothe: ...
Black Knight: ...
Sothe: ...What do you want?
Black Knight: ...
Sothe: Why are you trying to get close to Micaiah?
Black Knight: So that I might protect her.
Sothe: I protect her!
Black Knight: As things stand, I simply cannot entrust her safety to you.
Sothe: What is that supposed to mean?
Black Knight: If you hope to protect her, become stronger. Strong enough to surpass me, and stronger still.
Sothe: What? What could he mean...

@Boss
Jarod: So, you have the audacity to approach me at last. Don't expect an easy fight. Before I die, I will see each of you dead before me.


Jarod: So, sub-human, the slave turns on the master? I'll teach you to know your betters!


Jarod: You're one, aren't you? One of those odd sub-humans that witch brought... You'll make a nice rug!

%Black Knight,Jarod
Jarod: Well well well. Look what we have here. The loathsome phantom of old Daein... Why in blazes are you here? What inspired you to slooooowly clank your way up out of your grave?
Black Knight: My purpose is not for you to know.
Jarod: Oh. I feel so rejected. Must I crack that helm open and ask your ugly, naked face directly!? I have to take vengeance for Alder's death, after all!
Black Knight: This is how you meet your death? Sad. Come at me, then, and join your friend.

%Sothe,Jarod
Jarod: That face...I remember you. The kid who's always with that little wench.
Sothe: Sothe, of the Dawn Brigade.
Jarod: The Dawn Brigade, hm? Oh, how I despise your ilk. The thought of draining the life from your body... It makes me tingle all over.
Sothe: Ditto.

%Micaiah,Jarod
Jarod: So it's you...little girl.
Micaiah: General Jarod, the battle is over. Surely you can see it. You never believed Daein could do it, did you? But here you stand, broken, defeated by my countrymen and friends.
Jarod: Have I really, I wonder? Didn't I tell you? With you dead, there is no "Liberation Army." This is my golden opportunity... One blow is all it takes to turn defeat to victory. Such a lovely thought.
Micaiah: I will not lose to you. More importantly, the people of Daein will not lose to you!

@Boss
Jarod: Gh-ghuahh... I am...sorry for nothing. I regret...nothing. Because I did it my way... You win, Priestess. You must be delighted. Enjoy it while you can... Because...sooner or later...you...

@End
Micaiah: We won! We've taken back our country! Daein is under our control once again!

Pelleas: Thank you, Micaiah... Thanks to you, the kingdom of Daein lives again.
Micaiah: I didn't do it alone. We did it--everyone fighting together.
Pelleas: Well, you didn't hurt the effort! I'd hazard a guess that Daein's reconstruction would have only been a dream without you. I regret I have no other way to show my gratitude, but... I want to officially name you Supreme Commander of the armies of Daein.
Micaiah: ...I see. And I accept. It is with great honor that I assume this office. This battle may be over, but the fight to return Daein to its former glory will take time and effort. If my support can be of service, then I am honored to assist.
Pelleas: I'm glad. Well then, I'll perform the simple ceremony... Will you kneel? In the name of the king of Daein, I dub thee, Micaiah, Supreme Commander of Daein and grant thee the authority and responsibility pertaining thereto.

Micaiah: ...It feels...odd.
Pelleas: You wear it well. Won't you join me, as I champion Daein to a great new era? I'm counting on you.
Micaiah: I will.

Micaiah: Are you really leaving already? Stay...at least for the feast tonight. You've done so much, you deserve some celebration! Nothing I can say will convince you to break bread with Lord Izuka?
Tormod: Well, there is that. But honestly... If we stick around too long, the soldiers are gonna start giving us dirty looks. It's kind of awkward.
Micaiah: What do you mean?
Tormod: Most Daeins still loathe laguz. Getting rid of that hatred... Let's just say you have your work cut out for you. Look, we don't want to ruin everyone's party. It's been great, but we'll just quietly slip away.
Micaiah: That's terrible! I can't believe I never noticed. Tormod, I'm so sorry.
Tormod: Ah! Don't cry! I hate it when girls cry!

Sothe: Um...take care of yourselves. It's, you know, good...that you came to help us. So...um... Thanks.
Tormod: Whoa! You're thanking me? Better get ahold of yourself, Sothe. You're gonna make ME get all weepy.
Sothe: You little...

Micaiah: Muarim, before you go... I just want to thank you. Thank you for not telling anyone about my brand.
Muarim: No thanks are needed. It's rude of me to ask, but do you know anything about the circumstances of your birth?
Micaiah: No. I know nothing of my parents. But just before she died, the old woman who raised me told me what the brand was and what it meant.

Micaiah: This is proof that the blood of both beorc and laguz course through me. And so, I am anathema to both. She told me never to let anyone see it, and to be always on my guard.
Muarim: Wise advice...
Micaiah: I've avoided people most of my life to conceal my brand...and my powers. But there's no way to hide how very slowly I age. I just keep moving through Daein. The same holds true now... I won't be able to stay in this army long.

Muarim: Even so... As long as little Sothe is by your side, I think that you can overcome any difficulty.
Micaiah: Yes... Just as you have Tormod.
Muarim: Yes.
Vika: Muarim, Boss, I know you don't want to go, but at this rate, we'll be standing here all night.

Micaiah: Vika! My thanks go to you too. Sothe and I will visit you in the desert.
Vika: I'll be there...but I won't be waiting. Waiting for people who never come is...hard.
Micaiah: Vika, I said I'll come, and I will.
Vika: ...OK, then.

Nailah: Micaiah, Sothe, we're going with them.
Sothe: What? Aren't you going to Gallia?
Tormod: Yeah. We're taking them. C'mon, neither of you can leave Daein for a little while, right? Don't worry, we can handle it.
Nailah: Once the battle ended, it seemed time to move on. I'm sorry to change our plans, but this is better for all of us.
Micaiah: That's awful... I can't believe you're all leaving us at once.
Rafiel: Micaiah... Fate brought us together, you and I, guided by the same voice. Our paths are fated to cross again someday... I am sure of it.

Micaiah: I'm embarrassed... I didn't mean...to cry... It's been so nice meeting you all...

Tormod: 'Til next time! 'Cause I know we'll meet again!

Micaiah: What was that sound?

Micaiah: Volug! Lady Nailah... Did she send you back to guard me, Volug?

Sothe: Ridiculous... As if you didn't already have that annoying bird...

Sothe: Ouch! Ow! Ow ow ow! I take it back!
Micaiah: Sothe, we freed our country from tyranny together. But it's not over yet. We'll have to work hard for a long time to return Daein to its former grandeur. I know it won't be easy, but if I have you two with me, I know we can do it.

@Conversation 
Fiona: Lady Micaiah. I’m sorry to bother you while you prepare for battle. May I have a word with you?
Micaiah: Of course. What can I help you with?
Fiona: If my memory serves me correctly, you always use this type of tome, correct?
Micaiah: Yes, that’s right.
Fiona: Oh, I’m glad I remembered correctly. Then please, take this.
Micaiah: For me? Are you sure?
Fiona: It’s a token of appreciation for letting me--and Marado--join your army.
Micaiah: We’re lucky to have you. And thank you. I’ll use this tome well.
Fiona: Listening to Prince Pelleas’s speech earlier, I’m certain that Daein will exist anew. It will be a greater and more unified country than ever before!
Micaiah: I agree. So many things have happened along the way, but I am glad to be here now. I feel happy...and very proud.
Fiona: I feel the same way, and I’m sure all the soldiers of the Liberation Army do as well. Daein will soon be free... Lady Micaiah, please lead us to victory.
Micaiah: ...Yes. Together, we shall see victory!

Micaiah: Volug, where-- How did you get this?
Volug: (I got it from the ruins in the desert.)
Micaiah: From the ruins of the desert? Oh, you got it when we were there before?
Volug: (No, not quite.)
Micaiah: No? Then... how? When?
Volug: (You should keep it.)
Micaiah: What? It’s for me?
Volug: (I will catch up to you later.)
Micaiah: Wait! Volug? Did he go back to the desert just to get this...?
/***EOF***/
@Intro
Ike: Are we going the right way?
Yune: Yes. Ashera is at the top. We're going up. This is definitely the right way.
Ike: I'm a little disoriented because this is much bigger than it looks from outside. It's not my imagination, is it?
Yune: To be honest, you probably shouldn't look around too carefully. True miracles can overwhelm and terrify mortal minds. If you dwell on what you see here, you might stop climbing.
Ike: Really?

Yune: Yes, really! Well, for most people, anyway. You're all the exceptions. You are all focused on your one goal, and you can't die until you achieve it. That's what you think, right?
Ike: Yes.
Yune: Desire propels people forward. That's how it's been since the beginning of your kind. You hope, take, give, kill, struggle... Out of all those needs and desires, hate and strife are born. And that's all right. You should want. You should strive to fill that want. You should challenge your fates. When all else fails, you can still die fighting.
Ike: Your philosophy is pretty extreme, too. Ashera doesn't forgive people for their imperfections. But you embrace both the good and evil natures of people. You seem to enjoy our internal struggles.
Yune: A straight road is boring. Defeat and destruction are far more interesting than stasis.

Ike: Huh. Is there a goddess who takes a middle-of-the-road approach?
Yune: Well, long ago... Wait. Stop, everyone! We need to talk. The next one who stands in our way is someone deeply tied to you.
Ike: ...Let's go.

Black Knight: You've come. Welcome, son of Gawain. Welcome all, courageous warriors.

Ike: ...

Ike: I wonder how I didn't notice? Your composure, bearing, voice... It seems obvious in retrospect.
Black Knight: ...
Ike: I wish I'd had the chance to fight you...or see you fight, General. Then I would've known a lot sooner.
Black Knight: Unfortunately for both of us, that opportunity never came.
Ike: So, it really is you. The Black Knight... No, General Zelgius!

Zelgius: Ike. I have long looked forward to the day we would fight again. Now that it is here, let us not delay any longer. Raise your sword and begin!
Ike: Let's finish this!

Tibarn: Stop right there. I've got a debt to settle with this scum.
Zelgius: True, your revenge against me remains incomplete. However, may I ask you to step aside for now? Though at different times, Ike and I both learned the way of the sword from the same master: one of Daein's famous Four Riders, General Gawain. He left Daein under an assumed name and formed a mercenary company.

Zelgius: I was entranced by Greil's swordsmanship while he was in Daein. I studied under him, I fought next to him... I idolized him. When he left, I was crushed. I vowed to find him again, and challenge him to  duel. I had to know if I had surpassed him! Three years ago, I caught up to Greil. I challenged him to a duel, and was victorious. But, something was wrong... The fight had been too simple. I thought I'd never feel satisfaction again. Then, Ike told me why it had been so easy. Greil had severed all the tendons in his right hand, and swore never again to draw a blade. Can you imagine my joy at the news? I knew that a swordsman of his stature couldn't have been so easy to defeat!

Zelgius: My master's skills were passed down to his son, Ike. I will defeat him and finally surpass my master! I trust that you understand. Once our fight is finished, I will allow you to settle your quarrel, Hawk King.
Ike: Please, Tibarn.
Tibarn: ...Fine. If you're taking my place, you'd better win. Got that?
Ike: Of course. This is my chance to avenge my father's death. This time, he won't walk away.

Zelgius: Let us begin.

Zelgius: I won't allow anyone to interfere with our fight.
Ike: Agreed. It's better this way. I can focus on you!
Zelgius: No draw. No escape. One wins. One loses. We shall end this. One of us will live...

Zelgius: And one of us will die.
Ike: I'm ready. Good-bye, General Zelgius.

@Battle
Levail: Face me in an honorable duel, and know that I shall be the one to take your life.

@Boss-Talk
%Reyson,Levail
Reyson: Why do you avoid eye contact? Am I not a worthy enemy?
Levail: Attacking a defenseless man goes against the code of chivalry. Please stay back, man of Serenes.
Reyson: Do not insult me!

%Sanaki,Levail
Sanaki: I know you... You were a general in the Gaddos army. Did Zelgius betray Sephiran and side with the senate?
Levail: No, no! I swear upon the general's good name that he would do no such thing! I was the one who abandoned the duke of Gaddos to follow General Zelgius.
Sanaki: What is going on here? I don't understand the relationship between the Black Knight and the senate, or who is friend or foe...
Levail: Of one thing I am certain, Empress Sanaki. We are not your enemy! z Sanaki: Then order your men to stand down! I must speak with Zelgius. Take down that barrier!
Levail: I cannot do that. General Zelgius was very clear: he wishes to fight that man. Alone. My orders are to eliminate any intruders inside the tower in the meantime. My deepest apologies, Empress. 
Sanaki: Wait! I won't allow it! Halt, Levail! Halt!

%Micaiah,Levail
Levail: You must be the Silver-Haired Maiden, Micaiah, correct?
Micaiah: Who are you?
Levail: Don't worry, I've no intention of harming you. Far from it, in fact. I'm under orders from General Zelgius to keep my men away from you. Please retreat. I don't want to disobey the general.

%Haar,Levail
Levail: Captain Haar! You are still alive!
Haar: What happened that you didn't expect me to survive?
Levail: Um... Nothing, I suppose. It's just that it's been a while since you left Begnion.
Haar: Yeah. Twenty years ago, wasn't it?
Levail: I was still very young at the time. You had just been dubbed a knight. Oh, it brings back such memories... The bravery of the dracoknights, especially the Fizzart Platoon. It was legendary among the soldiers. But then you suddenly defected to Daein.
Haar: I got sick of taking orders from corrupt senators, so I ditched the country with General Shiharam.
Levail: I joined the army after I came of age. But it was different after you all left. It was as if you took its spirit with you. The only exception was General Zelgius, the general of Duke Persis's army.
Haar: I see. Is that why you're under his command?
Levail: Yes. He is the last true knight. I will die for him.
Haar: Yes, Levail. You will.
Levail: How I dreamed of fighting a proper foe! I am honored, Sir Haar! Have at you!

%Rafiel,Levail 
Rafiel: ...It seems as though you have been avoiding me since this battle began. What is the meaning of this?
Levail: Attacking a defenseless man goes against the code of chivalry. Please stay back, man of Serenes.
Rafiel: ...

%Leanne,Levail 
Leanne: Um... You... Keep... run away... from me. Why?
Levail: Attacking a defenseless woman goes against the code of chivalry. Please stay back, woman of Serenes.
Leanne: What? But...

@Boss 
Levail: General...Zelgius... I'd hoped...to fight for you...a while longer...

Levail: Face me in an honorable duel, and know that I shall be the one to take your life.

%Haar,Levail
Levail: Captain Haar! You are still alive!
Haar: What happened that you didn't expect me to survive?
Levail: Um... Nothing, I suppose. It's just that it's been a while since you left Begnion.
Haar: Yeah. Twenty years ago, wasn't it?
Levail: I was still very young at the time. You had just been dubbed a knight. Oh, it brings back such memories... The bravery of the dracoknights, especially the Fizzart Platoon. It was legendary among the soldiers. But then you suddenly defected to Daein.
Haar: I got sick of taking orders from corrupt senators, so I ditched the country with General Shiharam.
Levail: I joined the army after I came of age. But it was different after you all left. It was as if you took its spirit with you. The only exception was General Zelgius, the general of Duke Persis's army.
Haar: I see. Is that why you're under his command?
Levail: Yes. He is the last true knight. I will die for him.
Haar: Yes, Levail. You will.
Levail: How I dreamed of fighting a proper foe! I am honored, Sir Haar! Have at you!

%Sigrun,Levail
Sigrun: Sir Levail, you stand against Empress Sanaki. Lay down your weapons.
Levail: I cannot, Lady Sigrun. As strong as your loyalty is for the apostle, so is mine for General Zelgius.

%Tanith,Levail
Tanith: Sir Levail! How dare you raise your sword against Empress Sanaki! Has Goddess Ashera taken over your mind, too?
Levail: No, Lady Tanith. I fight for General Zelgius. I care not for the goddess's cause.

%Astrid,Levail
Levail: Lady Astrid, please stand down. A lady like you shouldn't have taken up a weapon in the first place.
Astrid: No, I am a knight of Crimea, here to fight you. Please forget about the past. The Lady Astrid you knew no longer exists.
Levail: You have indeed become strong. Very well! Prepare yourself!

%Oliver,Levail
Levail: Duke Tanas! I thought you were executed as a slave trader three years ago.
Oliver: True beauty is immortal. Look at me. Right now, I am flawless. You are not without potential. With education, you could aspire to be me.
Levail: ...No, thank you.

@Boss 
Zelgius: Let's see how you handle this!

Zelgius: Impressive! Most impressive!

@End
Ike: Ugh! Hahh!
Zelgius: You are stronger. Much stronger than before...
Ike: I have you to thank for that. I grew stronger through our previous fight. To be honest... I was overjoyed when I heard that the Black Knight was still alive. That surprised me... I felt neither sadness nor hate. Just joy. My hands were shaking with anticipation. I couldn't wait to fight my most formidable enemy again! Your swordsmanship was fearsome. Fiercer and more powerful than any I've ever seen. After our duel three years ago, I trained hard, trying to remember all of your skills and techniques.
Zelgius: General Gawain was invincible at the time he trained me. To surpass him was my ultimate goal as a swordsman.
Ike: Was I as skillful as you remember my father in his prime years? Did you see his shadow in my sword?
Zelgius: I certainly did, Ike. Thanks to you, I was able to fight my master at the height of his glory days.
Ike: Black Knight Zelgius. You were my father's killer. And my last teacher.
Zelgius: ...I spent most of my life shrouded in darkness... But my life had meaning. Now I'm certain of it...

Zelgius: ...phiran, I will wait for you in the afterlife...
Ike: ...

Ike: ...Let's move on. We don't have much time left.

Yune: The swords are calling to each other...

Yune: The holy sword Alondite... It's the counterpart to your sword, Ragnell. I think it wants you to take it up.
Ike: Alondite... The sword that took my father's life.


^locked
@Flashback 
Zelgius: What happened here?
Sephiran: We have arrived too late.
Zelgius: General Gawain!

Zelgius: General! Oh, thank the goddess... He's still alive. But...oh, no... what has he done? Elena... Did he kill her?
Sephiran: It must have been the medallion. He touched it, and the chaos bound within sent him into a rage beyond reason. Tragic...

Mist: Ike, wait for me!

Mist: Ahh! Father! Mother!

Zelgius: The general's children...
Mist: What's wrong with them? Are they asleep? ...Father? Mother?
Sephiran: They're very tired, child. Let's not disturb them.
Mist: We can't leave them sleeping here! It's cold out! We have to take them home! Ike, you have to help me!
Ike: ...
Mist: Ike?
Zelgius: I'll take them home. Will you show me the way?
Mist: Yeah! Come with me! 

Sephiran: May your final slumber be a peaceful one. It appears the medallion was too much for Lord Ashnard. It would be unwise to allow him access to it again.
Mist: Ah! Hey!

Mist: That's my mother's medallion! No one's supposed to see it! 
Sephiran: No, child! You mustn't touch it!

Mist: We can't let it get lost. I'll keep it.
Sephiran: You... You are unchanged? 
Mist: You said you'd take my mother home, too.
Zelgius: Yes, of course.

Mist: Ike? What's wrong? Why are you just standing there? Are you hurt?
Sephiran: You saw everything, didn't you? Poor child.
Mist: Ike?

Ike: AH! AAAH! AAAAAAAH! AAAAAAAH!

Mist: Ike?! What's wrong?
Ike: AHHH!

Mist: Ouch! Ike, that hurts. Let go!
Ike: Nnng! Aaagh! Aaaanngghh!

Zelgius: What happened?
Sephiran: Give me a moment.
Ike: ......
Sephiran: Sweet children... Sleep now. Rest.
Zelgius: What did you do to him?
Sephiran: Merely helped him to forget. I could not leave this memory to haunt him. It is too heavy a burden for one so young.
Zelgius: What will you do with the medallion?
Sephiran: The girl seems safe from its influence. We will leave it with her, for the time being.
Zelgius: Mm.

@End 
Ike: What... What was that?
Yune: You saw it too, didn't you, Ike? That memory... Could that have been--
Ike: I...I...was there... In that...place... My mother, she tried to stop my father, and...he killed her... I saw it all...
Yune: Is that what happened? I was contained inside at that time. I had no idea.
Ike: Zelgius...

Ike: ...
Yune: Can you still fight?
Ike: Yes. I will keep fighting. I won't stop until I die.

Yune: What's happening? Ah! What...?

@Flashback 
???: You bear the mark. So that's your secret, is it? The blood of the laguz runs through your veins.
Zelgius: Yes. There was someone on my father's side who...who was with a laguz.

Zelgius: My lord...the brand...do you know of a way to remove it? This cursed thing, I...I am an outcast from my family. I joined the military to escape the shame and hatred in their eyes... I live in fear of discovery. When I think that I might see that same shame and hatred in another's eyes, I... I come close to despair... I have lived my life alone, unable to trust or become close to anyone.
???: Such loneliness and isolation. You poor child... It pains me to tell you that I know of no way to remove your brand.
Zelgius: I...I understand... It was a foolish question. I apologize.

Zelgius: Lord Sage, I-- I realized some years ago that I was aging more slowly than others do.
???: And you wish to conceal that fact, don't you? Is that why you rarely remove your armor, even when indoors?
Zelgius: Yes...but this ruse will not last indefinitely. In a few years, I will be forced to leave this army's service.
???: And once again, you will be alone.
Zelgius: I am accustomed to being alone. My only hesitation, is that...I will miss studying the sword under my commander, General Gawain.
???: When the time comes for you to leave, will you come to me, perhaps?
Zelgius: My lord?
???: We share a...similar condition. I see something familiar within you. I can... understand your pain and isolation.
Zelgius: But why me?
???: I have a task that I must accomplish. With you at my side, I would feel more confident of my success.
Zelgius: If I join you, will I be redeemed?
???: I cannot say. At the very least, however, you will no longer be alone. And neither will I.
Zelgius: That is enough, then. You have made my decision simple. When I leave here I will find you.

Zelgius: I am a soldier in the Daein army. I serve under the command of General Gawain. My name is Zelgius. May I ask your name, my lord sage?
???: My name? Of course...

@End
Yune: Whose... Whose memory was that? It's just one of many... They're swirling everywhere... The tower resonates with their strength. But...who is it? Who do they belong to? ...There is such sadness... Zelgius met someone. One lonely soul calling out to another... But he's no longer with us. Zelgius is gone... And now the soul that remains is once more alone...
/***EOF***/
@Intro
Lekain: The dark god's tainted minions have defeated our forces at every turn. Now they have set foot on the holy ground of the empire itself! We have no choice but to lead the army ourselves and destroy them once and for all! We are the chosen ones! Our will is the will of the goddess! With us at its head, our army is invincible!
Hetzel: Y-yes. Quite. As you say, Vice-Minister.
Lekain: When I've beaten that brat, Sanaki, I'll make her kneel before me and plead for her life! Heh heh heh! 
Hetzel: The vice-minister says he hears the will of the goddess, yet I've heard nothing of the kind in my ears. Why would the goddess choose Lekain and me? We are the ones with the most to atone for...

Micaiah: Empress Sanaki.
Sanaki: The Silver-Haired Maiden...
Micaiah: Yes, it's me, Micaiah. Um... May I sit next to you?
Sanaki: What? Oh... Uh...
Sanaki: ...Of course you may.
Micaiah: Thank you. ...This is awkward. I'm sorry. I know that you are not very fond of me, but I wanted to talk to you.
Sanaki: It's not that. I like you just fine. It's just that...you make me feel inadequate.
Micaiah: It's because I can sing the galdr of release and hear Yune's voice, isn't it?
Sanaki: How...did you know?
Micaiah: I can sense the flow of people's thoughts. By seeing the movement of a person's mind, I can usually deduce what the person is thinking...
Sanaki: You can read minds?! What a boon that would be to running a country... If I could read people's minds, I could tell what the nobles and senators were thinking behind their smiles. I wonder why the goddess didn't bless me with such power?
Yune: Micaiah was born with her power. We didn't give it to her.
Sanaki: Ah! Is that you?! The dark g—No, I mean...the goddess of chaos, Yune? Let me ask you one thing, Yune. Why was Micaiah able to sing the galdr of release, but I wasn't?
Yune: I'm sorry, little empress, I don't know. But I knew that Micaiah could sing it. That's why I stayed close to her.
Sanaki: I don't understand. How can you be a goddess and not know? I thought gods were perfect beings who knew everything!
Yune: Gods? Perfect? Where did you get that idea? You haven't met a lot of gods, have you?
Sanaki: Well, no. But divinity created life from nothing! Surely only perfect beings could do that!
Yune: We did create life, and can do many things that you creatures of flesh can't. But that doesn't make us perfect. It just means we can make mistakes on a much grander scale...



Yune: We're not what you've been taught, and we're much closer to you skin-wearers than some will admit. But we do make mistakes... Sometimes we make terrible mistakes. Sometimes all it takes is one emotional outburst, and the entire world is drowning underwater!


Sanaki: Ow! Where did this sandstorm come from? Yune! You need to calm down...
Yune: I wish we were perfect. Then there wouldn't be any wars, and no one would have to die because of our mistakes!
Sanaki: Y-yes! I understand, Yune! Now please calm down!

Sanaki: Yune?
Micaiah: She's gone now. She got upset. She hasn't lost control of her emotions like that in a long time.
Sanaki: Micaiah. I'm supposed to be the voice of the goddess Ashera. Yet I've never once heard her speak. I wonder what she is like?
Micaiah: We may find out before this is over...

@Conversation 
Micaiah: King Naesala. You are by yourself today?
Naesala: Yeah. How about you? Where's that stone-faced sidekick of yours?
Micaiah: He's just hesitant to show his emotions.
Naesala: I'm only joking. Don't get so defensive.
Micaiah: Then don't insult my family.
Naesala: Hmph. You say he's your brother, but there's as much resemblance between you two as between me and Skrimir.
Micaiah: We're not related, but we're very close. Perhaps like you and Princess Leanne.
Naesala: What?! You didn't--
Micaiah: Yes, I can sense your emotions. I also know that you just closed up to keep me from looking in.
Naesala: You possess the same power as the herons? How stupid of me to let my guard down.
Micaiah: I'm sorry.
Naesala: What else did you sense?
Micaiah: Excuse me?
Naesala: Did you find out anything else about me?
Micaiah: No! I didn't try to read your mind intentionally. I just felt that your feelings for Princess Leanne were very warm, and that's all I saw.
Naesala: You're sure? Fine. You're a lot like me. I'll let you off the hook this time.
Micaiah: What do you mean by that?
Naesala: You'll see when the time comes. 
Micaiah: King Naesala...
Naesala: I almost forgot. Here, this is for you.
Micaiah: This is a tome of light...
Naesala: We need you to stay alive, all right? See you later. 
Micaiah: Naesala...

Sanaki: How did it go, Sigrun? Did you find anything useful?
Sigrun: Only this, unfortunately.
Sanaki: Ah! It’s the tome of Bolganone! This is quite rare. Good work, Commander!
Sigrun: Sigh...
Sanaki: Such a heavy sigh. What’s wrong?
Sigrun: What sort of state is the world in, when the apostle--our empress--has taken up arms and fights alongside the common soldiers?
Sanaki: Is that still bothering you? I already told you not to worry.
Sigrun: I know. But what would the duke of Persis think if he saw you right now?
Sanaki: Ah, Sephiran... I wonder what he and Zelgius are doing right now?
Sigrun: They’re awaiting your return, of course.
Sanaki: You don’t have any doubt about that?
Sigrun: Of course not. Duke Persis comes from a family of great mages. General Zelgius is the finest general in all of Begnion. They wouldn’t have been petrified. We’ll see them when we return to the empire.
Sanaki: That’s true. I’m certain that they’re safe, too. They must be waiting for us. Let us make haste toward Sienne.
Sigrun: Yes. That is why I keep suggesting that you should stay away from danger, and--
Sanaki: Nonsense. We will fight with everything we have. And in order to fight to our utmost, we need powerful magic at our disposal! Follow me, Sigrun. Under these sands are many precious treasures. Help me find them!
Sigrun: I’m glad she is feeling better, but to see our empress is digging around in the dirt like a common farmhand... Sigh.


@Intro
Sothe: Yune "visited" again, huh? Did she have anything interesting to say?
Micaiah: Sort of. I think she might be responsible for the ancient flood that sank all of the other continents.

Naesala: Sorry to break up your alone time, you two, but we have Disciples of Order troubles again.
Sothe: Hey! That's--

Sanaki: I knew this would happen, eventually. 
Sigrun: What is it, Empress Sanaki? Oh, I see.

Lekain: Ah, my dear Sanaki, the false apostle! What a pleasure to see you again, and this time, I've an army of the righteous behind me, ready to strike you down!
Sanaki: Vice-Minister Lekain. You are the foulest kind of traitor. I can never forgive you!
Lekain: Ha ha... How amusing. Forgiveness from a fraud is of no value to anyone.

Sigrun: Empress, please don't force me to listen to his blasphemies any longer! All me to silence him for you!
Sanaki: Hold, Sigrun. I want to understand. Lekain, on what grounds do you claim that I am not the true apostle?
Lekain: The apostle of Begnion shall be the firstborn daughter of each generation in the line of Altina, first empress. She will give voice to the goddess. She will pass judgment, give prophecy, and protect her people and their lands. Sanaki, you have never once heard the voice of the goddess, have you?
Sanaki: That is... That is only because... I have not come of age yet!
Lekain: Oh, what a hysterical coincidence! That's just what the senate has been telling the people for years now! "Apostle Sanaki is too young to hear the goddess. Give her more time." How funny that the lie you've been living is the same lie we've been telling.
Sanaki: But, how... Explain yourself, Lekain!
Lekain: Poor false apostle... No one ever told you about your older sister, did they? She was the true apostle.
Sanaki: I...had a sister?
Lekain: She died before you were born, assassinated along with Apostle Misaha by the heron clan. So the senate installed you, the second daughter, as the apostle instead.
Sanaki: You lie! You impugn both me and the noble herons!

Lekain: Heh heh heh... I'm glad to have exposed your secret. Perhaps now you will be able to accept the truth.
Sigrun: Silence! The lying tongue of a treacherous senator proves nothing!
Lekain: You seek proof? Fine. We shall settle this in the ancient way: in a battle to the death. Whomsoever the goddess sees fit to win the day must be in the right!

Micaiah: Lekain! We've finally found you! Now's our chance, Sothe! We must do whatever it takes to get the blood pact!
Sothe: Right. Let's go!

@Battle
Numida: Vice-Minister Lekain, I take it we may begin? Champions of the goddess! Crush these heretics! Give them the reward for rebelling against our goddess!

Micaiah: Ugh... They're so powerful... Are we...destined to perish here?

Black Knight: My Maiden... Hold on a little longer. I am here.

@Recruit-Talk 
%Micaiah,Stefan
Stefan: Hello! How can I help?
Micaiah: What? Who--
Stefan: You and I were born under the same fate.
Micaiah: "Same fate"? Do you also carry the mark?
Stefan: Indeed. I don’t know who you are fighting, or why. But attacking my kin in the desert is the same as attacking me. I will not let them leave this place alive.
Micaiah: My friend... May I ask your name?
Stefan: When you ask someone’s name, isn’t it proper to give your name first?
Micaiah: S-sorry. I’m Micaiah.
Stefan: And I am Stefan. Well met. Let’s go.

%Lethe,Stefan
Lethe: I remember you!
Stefan: What a pleasure to see you again, noble dame of Gallia.
Lethe: It’s Lethe. I see that you were spared from petrification. I’m glad.
Stefan: Petrification? I’d like to hear more about that, but there seems to be some sort of battle on.
Lethe: We only seem to run into each other when I’m fighting for my life. Sorry I don’t have the time to catch up.
Stefan: Ah, well, that’s easily fixed. I shall help you win the battle, so we can talk properly. How does that sound?
Lethe: Sounds just like old times. It’s good to fight with you again, Stefan.

%Mordecai,Stefan
Mordecai: Stefan! What are you doing here?
Stefan: That’s what I was about to ask you! I came to see what all the noise in my desert was about.
Mordecai: Ah, so you didn’t get turned to stone! That is very good!
Stefan: Stone? What are you talking about? I suppose you’ll have to fill me in later. Let’s fight off the enemy together.
Mordecai: Good! Mordecai is happy to fight with Stefan again!
Stefan: And I as well, Mordecai.

@Battle-Talk 
%Lethe,Stefan
Lethe: I remember you!
Stefan: Pleasure to see you again, noble dame of Gallia.
Lethe: It’s Lethe. I see that you were spared from petrification. I’m glad.
Stefan: Petrification? I’d like to hear more about that, but there seems to be some sort of battle on.
Lethe: We only seem to run into each other when I’m fighting for my life. Sorry I don’t have the time to catch up.
Stefan: Ah, well, that’s easy. I've joined the battle, so we can talk properly later. How does that sound?
Lethe: He certainly hasn't changed.

%Mordecai,Stefan
Mordecai: Stefan! What are you doing here?
Stefan: That’s what I was about to ask you! I came to see what all the noise in my desert was about.
Mordecai: Ah, so you didn’t get turned to stone! That is very good!
Stefan: Stone? What are you talking about? I suppose you’ll have to fill me in later. Let’s fight off the enemy together.
Mordecai: Good! Mordecai is happy to fight with Stefan again!
Stefan: And I as well, Mordecai.

%Leanne,Black Knight
Leanne: (By the goddess... You!)
Black Knight: You fear me? I do not blame you. I apologize for the circumstances of our last meeting. Be assured, Princess, I am not here to harm you. If you are frightened, I shall step away.
Leanne: (Nothing good can come of his being here. He’s a walking nightmare...)

%Sothe,Black Knight
Sothe: I knew it. I knew that even if the end of the world came, you'd be the last one left standing.
Black Knight: Your faith is touching.
Sothe: Well, you and the commander. Commander Ike will defeat you, you know. You can't run forever.
Black Knight: You are correct. We will soon meet again.
Sothe: Shouldn't you sound more worried about that? You sound as if you're looking forward to fighting Commander Ike again. Don't delude yourself. You can't beat him.
Black Knight: We shall see.

%Micaiah,Black Knight
Micaiah: Ah, Sir Knight! I am glad to see you're safe! I knew someone of your power wouldn't have turned to stone.
Black Knight: I am glad to see you're safe as well, Maiden.
Micaiah: Are you here to save us again?
Black Knight: Not "us."
Micaiah: What?
Black Knight: I am only here to save you. No one else.
Micaiah: But, why? Why just me?
Black Knight: We will talk more when the battle is over. I shouldn't have said anything yet. Forgive me.
Micaiah: Sir Knight...

@Boss
Lekain: Hmm, reinforcements? I suppose I must turn back for my own safety. It is vital that I not be harmed, for the good of the world to come! While it pains me to leave the field of battle, I mustn't put myself at risk. 

Lekain: Hmm, it's beginning to look dangerous here. I suppose I must turn back for my own safety. It is vital that I not be harmed, for the good of the world to come! While it pains me to leave the field of battle, I mustn't put myself at risk. 

Numida: I don't understand. Why would they fight against the vice-minister, chosen of Ashera? Are they somehow...deficient? You will perish for your defiance of the empire, vermin!

%Nolan,Numida
Nolan: No one escapes from their past, Numida. We all have to answer for our crimes one day. Today is that day for you.
Numida: Silence, cur!

%Edward,Numida
Edward: This is for the free people of Daein! Haaaa!
Numida: Don't you idealistic twits ever give up?

%Skrimir,Numida
Numida: Ahhhh! What a fearsome beast! Only the dark god could create such a monstrosity!
Skrimir: What's wrong, little beorc? Frightened? If you cannot look upon me, you cannot hope to defeat me!

%Naesala,Numida
Naesala: Ah, Duke Numida. Unbelievable that a coward like you was changed back from stone. Particularly surprising, given some of your more...impious transgressions.
Numida: I-I have no idea what you're talking about! I am a senator in good standing!
Naesala: My country produces excellent spies, Your Grace. I know every atrocity you committed while in Daein. I actually hold quite a bit of incriminating evidence that would destroy you if it became public. It's a pity that all that work will be wasted, though, since this is the last day of your life.

%Tanith,Numida
Tanith: I am Second Commander Tanith of the Holy Knights! Enemies of the apostle, beware!
Numida: How said that you still put stock in your laughable infant of a holy figure. Fool!

%Sigrun,Numida
Numida: It's tragic, really, that the Holy Knights have wasted so much time and energy protecting a sham apostle! It's not too late, you know, to align yourself with the true chosen of the goddess.
Sigrun: The loyalty of the Holy Knights can only be commanded by one person, and that will never change. It is my duty and privilege to execute her orders and destroy the enemies of the apostle!

%Sanaki,Numida
Numida: So, child, what the vice-minister said was true! Wicked infant! How dare you pretend to be divinely inspired while you heard absolutely nothing from the goddess!
Sanaki: I...

%Sothe,Numida
Numida: Fool! Do you honestly believe that your dark god can triumph in the face of Ashera's divine majesty?
Sothe: She's not my dark god. To be honest, I don't care about the gods. They have nothing to do with me.
Numida: What?! Then who do you fight for?!
Sothe: I fight for my family, and I fight against tyranny. That is enough.

%Micaiah,Numida
Micaiah: You!
Numida: Who are you, girl?
Micaiah: Duke Numida! I will never forget your oppression of the Daein people, or your cowardly flight from justice!
Numida: Ah, you're from Daein. You should know that I had nothing to do with that unpleasantness. That was all General Jarod's doing.
Micaiah: General Jarod was a scoundrel and a fiend, but at least he had a soldier's honesty in his villainy. You black-hearted senators nauseate me, weaving a dense tapestry of lies that you yourselves believe!

@Boss
Numida: What... What's happening? Vice-Minister? I lost the battle...


@End
Micaiah: Sir Knight! How good to see you! You always save me from danger.
Black Knight: Maiden. I have a favor to ask of you. Will you come with me? My master awaits you at the Tower of Guidance.
Micaiah: The Tower of Guidance? If I may ask...who is your master?
Black Knight: You will see when we get there. Please take my hand. We will be there in the blink of an eye.
Micaiah: ...I can't. I can't leave everyone behind. We have to get to the tower together.
Black Knight: Your allies will turn to stone with the light of judgment next shines. I do not wish for you to see it.
Micaiah: The light will strike again? When? Please tell me!
Black Knight: ...Maiden. I will come for you again. Make up your mind by then. 
Micaiah: Wait...
Sothe: Don't tell me, he's gone again, right? I knew we couldn't count on him.
Micaiah: Um, Sothe...
Sothe: Lekain got away, didn't he?
Micaiah: Yes, he did. But we'll have another chance.
Sothe: I'm sure of it. I know he's going to attack us again. Don't know if that's good news or bad...
Micaiah: I know. We have to be ready.

Sanaki: Sigrun. Tanith. I need to talk to both of you.
Tanith: Empress. Why so serious? Whatever it is, you can be sure that Sigrun and I will help you with it.
Sigrun: Tanith, let her speak.
Sanaki: When the last apostle was assassinated, and I was not yet born, Begnion went a long time without central authority. The people were frightened, both of the murder and the power vacuum. Without the goddess's voice, Begnion was lost. Sephiran once told me that when the senate confirmed my appointment as the next apostle, it was as if a sign of relief sounded across the country.
Sigrun: It's true. I still remember your coronation, the first time I ever saw you, Empress Sanaki. With your tiny hand in Sephiran's, you stumbled as you walked... A little girl, barely visible in the grand hallway of the cathedral. It was a moving sight.
Tanith: I remember as well. The empress stepped on her cape and tripped a total of five times.
Sigrun: Tanith, that hardly seems appropriate.
Sanaki: I think the country's sigh of relief was unwarranted. I cannot hear the goddess's voice. I never could. This has perplexed me for years. At first I thought my youth was to blame, but this excuse grows thinner each year. There is no clear age at which previous apostles heard the goddess for the first time, but all of them had heard by now.
Sigrun: Empress, if this is about what Duke Gaddos said--
Sanaki: If I am not the true apostle, have I betrayed my people? Even unknowingly? You two are my most trusted friends. How would you feel about me if I were not the apostle? Be honest with me.
Sigrun: You would like an honest answer? Very well. It would change nothing.
Sanaki: What?
Sigrun: If you thought that our allegiance was to the office of the apostle, well, you were wrong. Even from a young age, you have been working with Lord Sephiran to fight the senate on behalf of the people.
Tanith: Our loyalty lies with you, Empress Sanaki. You will always be our empress. Please do not forget that.
Sanaki: ...I am...blessed. Not by the voice of the goddess, but by loyalty like yours.
Sigrun: Be strong, Empress Sanaki. Even if you are not an apostle, you are still the one, true empress of Begnion.

@Narration
Prince Kurthnaga tells of the connection between Daein and the dragon tribes. Ranulf reveals the identity of the Black Knight. These revelations send Ike's mind spinning in a whirlpool of confusion and doubt.
Ike becomes convinced that the answers to all of his question lie within the Tower of Guidance, and he is determined to reach the tower at any cost. His group arrives in the duchy of Tanas, near the imperial capital. Caught in a sudden downpour, they take shelter in the duke's deserted villa.

/***EOF***/
@Intro
Ranulf: According to our scouts, the enemy has split into two forces. One is east of the Ertz Mountains. The other is approaching from the north, by crossing through Crimea.
Tibarn: So, they plan on flanking Gallia from the north and east. If we don't stop them, this is gonna hurt.
Caineghis: Agreed. What is the Crimean army doing?
Ranulf: From what the scouts have said, nothing at all. I'm guessing they're waiting to see how everything pans out.
Skrimir: Crimea let Begnion pass without a fight?! What about their alliance with Gallia?
Ranulf: It's not that simple, Skrimir. Begnion is Crimea's suzerain state. It's difficult for Crimea to refuse Begnion's demands.
Skrimir: A suza-what? Someone explain to me what that means.
Ranulf: Hmm, how can I explain... All right, how's this? Begnion still holds political power over countries that won independence from them. Anything you want to add, Ike?
Ike: Don't look at me. I've always thought the whole idea was ridiculous.
Skrimir: Never mind what it means. Has Crimea broken its treaty with us?
Ranulf: Not...as such. I didn't say it was right, just that it was complicated...
Skrimir: It's not complicated at all! Crimea has betrayed Gallia! We cannot let this pass! How da--
???: Control yourself, Skrimir. You're acting like a fool.

Skrimir: M-my apologies, Your Majesty. It is just--
Caineghis: I doubt that Crimea has sided with Begnion. Queen Elincia is very clever, and I will not stop trusting her judgment just yet. She most likely allowed the Imperial Army to pass through her lands in order to avoid a slaughter.

Nailah: Who is this beorc queen who warrants so much trust? Please, enlighten us.
Caineghis: She is a delightful woman, both in manner and in reign. Her late father, King Ramon, and I forged an alliance between beorc and laguz. We sought to bring our peoples closer. She has taken her father's ideals as her own and strives to create a country where anyone, beorc or laguz, can live free and in peace.
Rafiel: How times have changed... I never could have dreamed of a time where such a beorc ruler would exist. I must admit, I still have doubts.

Reyson: I don't blame you, my brother. Change has been slow, but the circle of acceptance in Tellius has been widening. As you can see, both Leanne and I have many beorc friends. Queen Elincia of Crimea is one of them.
Skrimir: Both the king and Reyson speak well of this woman! Is she truly so special?
Ike: She truly is. But right now, that's beside the point. The most important thing is, Elincia will never betray her allies in Gallia.
Ranulf: I couldn't agree more. We can trust her.
Caineghis: All right. Let's assume for now that Crimea will not aid the empire in any military fashion during this conflict. Hawk King, let's hear your thoughts.
Tibarn: Well, if Crimea won't make a move, then I see no reason to wait until the empire reaches Gallia. I'd prefer to take an army up north and end this mess for good.
Caineghis: Very well. Ike, do the Greil Mercenaries have anything to add?
Soren: ...I agree with Tibarn's idea. We should strike while their army is split in half. I'm pretty sure that General Zelgius will be there, though. We'd better be careful.
Caineghis: Very well. Hawk King, may I ask that your forces protect the eastern border? While they do that, I would like you to lead our strike force to the northern border. Take Ranulf with you, as well.
Skrimir: Send me too, Your Majesty! Please, let me reclaim my honor! I beg you.
Ranulf: I second that, Your Majesty. Skrimir is perfect for this mission.
Skrimir: Ranulf?
Caineghis: ...Very well. Will you look after him, Hawk King?
Tibarn: Sure, I can handle him. He's easier to keep under control than you are, Lion King.
Caineghis: Hmph. He's all yours, then. Now, everyone. Prepare to leave before daybreak. We are all depending on you.

Gallia: Insects of Begnion! We'll show you the power of the beast tribe!
Phoenicis: Beorc scum! For the razing of our homes, we'll make you wish you'd never been born!
Begnion: Filthy sub-humans! This war ends now. Prepare yourselves!

Gallia: A beorc army is approaching from the hill to the left! That flag... It's the Crimean army!
Gallia: C-Crimea intends to side with the empire after all!

Ike: Elincia? What are you doing...


Valtome: Uwee hee hee. Finally, they see the light and are coming to fight with us! Excellent. Took them long enough. I suppose when you have the brain of a gnat, these things take some time to sink in.
Elincia:  I am Queen Elincia of Crimea. I have a message for the commanders of both armies! I am here to declare the will of Crimea and its people! Crimea has been ruled under the ideals of peace and equality since the reign of my father, King Ramon. As such, I cannot and will not allow you to spill blood upon our land! Therefore...

Elincia: I demand that both the Laguz Alliance and the Imperial Army leave Crimea at once!
Valtome: Withdraw our troops?! You foolish girl! We will not be ordered about by the proclamations of a peasant like you! Puppet rulers such as yourself should stay inside their pretty castles and play dress-up. Begnion's patience has worn out. After we finish slaughtering the sub-humans, we'll be coming for you in Melior.
Elincia: Commander of the Laguz Alliance. How do you respond?
Tibarn: ...You have some serious guts, jumping into the middle of a battlefield all by yourself. But your high-and-mighty beliefs don't change the fact that Begnion must answer for its crimes. Step aside.
Elincia: ...Very well. I've heard from both commanders. Then--

Elincia: This is Crimea's answer. We will not sway from our ideas. My countrymen stand united. We will not use force. But we are willing to do whatever it takes to end this here and now.
Valtome: What?! Have you lost your mind?

Tibarn: Heh...
Elincia: ...
Tibarn: ...Ha... Hahahahaha!  Ike, I thought you were the craziest beorc I'd ever met, but you have some serious competition! Crimea's queen is one tough woman... Your Majesty, I like your style! Skrimir! I can't let such a pretty woman down. Let's get out of here.
Skrimir: Of course. The beast tribe will not use our claws against unarmed beorc. Soldiers, back to the forest!

Elincia: Thank you, King Tibarn.
Tibarn: This is only temporary. The war between the Laguz Alliance and Begnion isn't finished yet.
Elincia: Yes, I understand that. Even so, I want you all to know where Crimea stands in this.
Tibarn: ...Hey, you and I should get together and chat sometime. I'll be seeing you again soon. 
Levail: General Zelgius! What are your orders? Shall we launch an attack?
Zelgius: No. We will withdraw.
Levail: Are you certain, General?
Zelgius: Could you cast aside your weapon while surrounded by armed soldiers?
Levail: I don't know, sir... No, probably not.
Zelgius: Queen Elincia has done something that even I would be hard pressed to do. For that, we must show our respect.

Valtome: Stop this instant! Wait! Where do you think you're going?! Attack those mangy beasts!
Zelgius: Please forgive my audacity. However, we are withdrawing. Every battle ebbs and flows. To go against these tides is unwise. Please understand, Senator.
Valtome: You self-righteous fool... You'll understand something else, once we're through with this battle.

Mist: I don't want to go back yet... Do we have time to talk to Elincia?
Titania: It has been a long time since we last saw Queen Elincia. We should at least say hello.
Ranulf: Sure, sounds great to me. There's probably not much time for small talk, but we'll see.
Valtome: ...Soldiers! Kill the queen of Crimea! That girl is a traitor to Begnion!
Ranulf: Whoa, this isn't good! The Imperial Army is on the move. They're after Queen Elincia!
Ike: So much for imperial honor. Greil Mercenaries! Looks like we have our old job back! Protect Queen Elincia!

Geoffrey: Tch! I knew it! Follow me, my knights! We shall protect Her Majesty!

Valtome: Kill every living thing that stands in our way! Show them that I--no, the senate--controls this pathetic land!
Sergei: Of course, Senator Valtome! I'd be happy to kill the wench.

@Battle-Talk 
%Ike,Elincia
Ike: Elincia!
Elincia: Sir Ike!
Ike: I'm glad you're safe. That was one crazy move you pulled.
Elincia: It's what I had to do to stop the fighting. However...my efforts have failed. I could not stop them.
Ike: But at least you made your point to the Laguz Alliance. I'm sure there are those in the Imperial Army who understand as well. You did the right thing.
Elincia: You're always so kind. Thank you, Sir Ike.

@Battle
Levail: General Zelgius! Senator Valtome is about to run down the queen of Crimea!
Zelgius: That useless parasite. Attacking an unarmed woman... This is beneath even him.
Levail: The Crimean army and a part of the Laguz Alliance have joined battle in order to rescue the queen. They are fighting Senator Valtome. Shall we assist the senator?
Zelgius: Prepare to leave. We are not fighting.
Levail: But, General... That would mean that we abandoned Duke Culbert's force...
Zelgius: I will take all responsibility for this. Make my command clear to all of the men. I will not accept more units joining this fight!

Begnion: Commander! Our force is taking heavy losses! Defeat is imminent. Even our strike force cannot keep the enemy at bay! Please, you must escape!
Valtome: I've been defeated? Me? By worthless rabble like this?! Ugh, blast that Zelgius! How dare he not assist me! I'll have his pompous head for this! 

@Boss
Sergei: Fools! How dare you fight my master? He is Senator Valtome, duke of Culbert! Die in his name!

%Sergei,Ike
Sergei: We are under the direct orders of Senator Valtome! His words carry the weight of the entire senate! Mercenaries! You know how war works. You know that Begnion can pay--
Ike: Save your breath. The Greil Mercenaries choose our employers. All the wealth in the senate couldn't buy us. Lay down your bow and surrender.
Sergei: What?! Wretched fool! You'll rot in the ground next to that treacherous girl.

@End
Ranulf: Phew... Begnion's finally given up! That took some doing.
Ike: Tell me about it. But we did get some good information out of all this. Now we know for certain that there are serious leadership problems in the Imperial Army. I'm glad General Zelgius was honorable enough to withdraw. If the full strength of the two armies had clashed, Elincia's effort would've been wasted.

Geoffrey: Sir Ike! Sir Ranulf! Thank you for helping us save Queen Elincia.
Ike: Geoffrey. I'm really surprised you let Elincia do such a dangerous thing. You must be more relaxed these days.
Geoffrey: It wasn't easy for me, as you could guess. But I can never really say no to Queen Elincia. What choice did we have, anyway?
Ike: You didn't have any, and you all did what needed to be done. I'm really impressed. Crimea's become quite strong.
Geoffrey: Don't talk like such a stranger. The Greil Mercenaries are also from Crimea. You're part of that strength.
Ike: True. I'm very proud of my homeland.
Geoffrey: Let's go see Her Majesty. You do have time to speak with her, right?


Valtome: I shall now dispense punishment for disobeying my orders! General Zelgius! Do you have anything to say? I would hear your pleas now.
Zelgius: ...I am prepared to face the consequences of my actions.
Valtome: Quite an admirable sentiment, General. Although I imagine you should have thought about the consequences before you abandoned your allies! Now, on your knees. It's time for your execution. Good-bye, General Zelgius.

Levail: Wh-what?! Senator! I must ask you to reconsider! To execute a man of General Zelgius's caliber without a trial... It's madness! It's horrible!
Valtome: Levail, are you questioning a senator? A senator holds the right to punish a prisoner however he sees fit! Oh, I'll make sure to tell our people that the general was cut down in battle after felling hundreds of sub-humans. That way, the people will not trouble themselves over details that they couldn't possibly understand.
Levail: You would bury the truth?! Do you think the apostle is as easily fooled by your lies?!
Valtome: Oh, I sincerely doubt the apostle will ever get to hear them. ...All right, I've waited long enough. Your wait is over as well, Zelgius. Execute him!

Valtome: Don't worry, Zelgius. I'll make sure that your lands are looked after. They'll be mine, of course. Uwee hee hee!
Zelgius: ...

Valtome: What?!
???: Silence, Valtome! All soldiers loyal to Begnion are to stand down immediately!


Tanith: Hello, Senator Valtome.
Valtome: You...! You're one of the Holy Guards!
Tanith: The apostle will be here shortly! Soldiers, sheathe your weapons and kneel before the apostle!
Valtome: What?! No... It's impossible!

Begnion: Ah! It's her! There's no doubt about it!
Begnion: It's the apostle! The apostle is here!

Sanaki: ... My soldiers. I apologize for my sudden disappearance.

Sanaki: I am here today to explain things, and to bring you news from home that is of the utmost importance. My soldiers, listen to me carefully. I never wished for this war. It was started by those who wanted me dead. It was spurred on by their desire to rule Begnion for themselves. This war was the work of the senate and was organized by Vice-Minister Lekain of Gaddos!
Begnion: The senate wished harm upon the apostle?!
Begnion: No... Impossible! How can that be?
Valtome: ...Lies! She lies! Do not be tricked, proud soldiers of Begnion! She is not the true apostle!
Sigrun: Ah, I see. Then we are not the real Holy Guards? Is that what you are trying to say?
Valtome: N-no! This is a farce! You cannot trick us! You are using a fake apostle to disable the senate and take over Begnion! Men, we must act! That vile Sephiran is their leader! The fact that he's been put in chains is our proof!

Valtome: Hurk!
Zelgius: ...I will not allow you to disgrace my master's good name. One more syllable and I shall snap your neck, Valtome.

Valtome: Urk...! Ahh!

Zelgius: Apostle. Words cannot express how good it is to see you alive and well. We have been awaiting your return.
Sanaki: Thank you, General Zelgius. You and I have much to discuss.

@Narration
Apostle Sanaki arrives without warning at the Central Army's main camp in Crimea. With a strength born of conviction, she exposes the senators' vile plot to undermine and usurp her.
Valtome counterattacks with a claim crafted by the senate--that the apostle is a fraud who, along with her prime minister, Sephiran, is attempting to deceive all of Begnion and lead them away from the goddess's graces. To the citizens of Begnion, the senators are chosen by the goddess and are worthy of the same respect given to the apostle. As for the apostle, her image is tarnished when the senate imprisons Prime Minister Sephiran in her name.
An ever-growing number of Begnion's citizens are willing to believe the senators' claim that the apostle is an agent of evil trying to deceive them. So it is that the Central Army is divided. One camp believes in the apostle, and the other supports the senate. This new turmoil fans the flames of chaos into a mighty conflagration, burning across Tellius.

@Conversation 
Giffca: Welcome back, you two.
Skrimir: Giffca. Apologies for worrying you.
Giffca: You persevered through many difficult battles. We are glad to have you back in one piece.
Skrimir: Each and every soldier in the army helped me. I couldn’t do anything by myself. Alone, I was powerless.
Giffca: That’s good. If that’s what you learned from this campaign, then it wasn’t a wasted effort for Gallia. Good work, Ranulf.
Ranulf: Thank you, sir.
Giffca: Skrimir, come here. I have something from the king.
Skrimir: What is this?
Giffca: It’s a satori sign. It is said to bring out the hidden power of the laguz.
Skrimir: Amazing!
Giffca: Here, it’s yours.
Skrimir: Ranulf. You should take it.
Ranulf: What? Why? The king said it was for you!
Skrimir: Yes, but you’ve been looking after me. It’s... a sign of my appreciation.
Ranulf: Skrimir...
Giffca: Very well. Ranulf. This is yours to keep.
Ranulf: A-all right. Thank you, sir.
Giffca: Skrimir, you reply to his thanks.
Skrimir: Um, yes. You’re welcome. I am grateful for your continued support.
Ranulf: Of course, General.
/***EOF***/
@Flashback
Male Voice 1: Oh goddess... Will you please stop? Is this not enough? Your...sister...regrets all she has done. If you look closely at any of Yune's actions, and their unintended consequences, you will see they were all born of fear. Fear that you would expunge her from yourself. If you would but allow her back within you, this would surely never happen again.
Female Voice 1: Yune is chaos. She is an imperfection in my being. It is because of her that I...I have done this thing that cannot be undone.

Female Voice 1: No matter how I admonished you, you would not stop fighting. There was nothing I could do. Every day my beloved children were killed, killed by others of my beloved children. With every death my rage and sorrow grew until I could control myself no longer. My emotions burst forth and I razed the land. Furious storms savaged the heavens, roiling waters rose in tremendous floods. Lives were lost beyond counting.

Female Voice 1: I will purge chaos from within myself. Never again will I allow myself to commit such atrocities. I will become a goddess to properly guide and protect my people. I will become perfect.
Male Voice 1: But...to nullify half of your being... We were terribly, monstrously wrong to suggest it. You shouldn't have to bear the weight of our foolish ideas.
Female Voice 2: I...I was just...lonely. My other half spent all her time worrying about the laguz and beorc. She said she was going to erase me. I was...only playing. I never meant to hurt so many.
Male Voice 1: I understand, Yune.
Female Voice 2: I won't do it again. I love all of you, too. You paid attention to me. I don't want to go away. It would be lonely, and I don't like being lonely. I want to stay here with all of you.
Female Voice 3: ...Goddess, I have a suggestion. If we here, of our own will, were to make a pledge to coexist, there would be no need to erase Yune, would there? In which case, we give you our solemn oath: never again will either the laguz or beorc seek the extermination of the other. Soan? Dheginsea? This is agreeable, is it not?
Female Voice 1: I do not accept your pledge.
Female Voice 3: Why? 
Female Voice 1: I cannot believe you. You are living creatures created in our image. You cannot seal away your instincts with reason. You are like us. You feel profound sorrow, anger, fear... A conflict will surely arise to overwhelm your reason and discipline. You will be unable to master your emotions. And I may once again make the mistakes that have led us here. The only way to prevent this is to expunge chaos completely. Yune must not exist. My decision has not changed.
Male Voice 1: In that case, Goddess... Would you consider an alternative to such drastic measures? We shall use the power of seid magic to seal Yune in this medallion. Someday...and it may be in the far, distant future... Someday we may be able to earn your trust, Goddess. In the hope of that day arriving, refrain from annihilating Yune, please.

Female Voice 1: In my eyes, imprisoning Yune and destroying her are the same thing. ...If the chaos and disaster that Yune begets can be averted, I have no objection. I do not know, however, if Yune will submit to such confinement.
Male Voice 1: Goddess Yune? Please hear me. I will never give up. Someday, I will see you restored to yourself. Please...
Female Voice 2: ...Mm...
Male Voice 1: Do not look so sad. I will always be with you. I will sing to you. You will not be lonely. I promise.

@Intro
Yune: They're getting stronger and stronger... Whose memories are those? I know him.

Yune: Everyone, Ashera is nearby. Just beyond those doors... That's where we'll find her.
Ike: We made it. Finally...
Yune: You should know, Ashera may have changed since before her slumber. Order and chaos are meant to naturally balance each other out. If you take one away, balance is lost. I don't expect Ashera to have the merest shred of compassion. Talking to her will likely do no good.
Ike: We don't have much choice. If talking won't work, we'll have to use force. Otherwise, this has all been for nothing.

Ike: How about you?
Yune: What do you mean?
Ike: Are you completely chaotic? Are you out of balance? As far as I can tell, you don't seem to lean too far in either direction.
Yune: Ashera and I see things a little differently... During my long sleep, I was wrapped in sweet, gentle music.
Ike: Heron galdrar?
Yune: Yes, but more important than the song itself, I was never alone. There was always someone, singing comfort to me. Ashera shouldn't have isolated herself. She became lonely and bitter, and lost touch with her people...

Ike: Hold on... This thing won't budge.
Yune: What's wrong with it?
???: Those doors cannot be opened.

Sephiran: They have been sealed with powerful magic.
Sanaki: Sephiran! You're all right... I'm so relieved to see you!

Sephiran: I'm sorry to have been a cause for concern, Apostle. Forgive me.
Sanaki: Sephiran... There's something I need to tell you. I'm not a true apostle. I didn't mean to abuse your trust.
Sephiran: I've known that for some time, Sanaki. Don't forget that I was almost a father to you. It honestly doesn't make any difference to me whether or not you can hear the goddess.
Sanaki: Sephiran... Th-thank you...for having always been there for me.

Ike: Empress... Shouldn't you tell him about General Zelgius?
Sanaki: Yes...I suppose I should. Sephiran, Zelgius is dead... I know you put a lot of trust in him, but he was also closely allied with Daein. I'm sure you've heard of Daein's so-called Black Knight? Sephiran, the Black Knight was Zelgius.
Ike: ...But that's probably not news to you, is it? After all, it was you he was taking orders from.

Sanaki: Wha-?! Ike? What are you saying?!
Ike: A man like Zelgius could never serve conflicting interests... Never. Everything he did, he did for one master. Isn't that so, Sephiran?

Sanaki: I think I understand! You wanted to monitor events within Daein! You sent Zelgius as a spy.
Sephiran: Precisely. I felt it important to observe King Ashnard carefully... That was my goal.



Sephiran: At the time, it was relatively easy to get an outsider close to the king. Ashnard was famous for employing powerful men with no regard for their background or social status.
Ike: Obviously, he would have needed no convincing once he saw the bladework of General Zelgius.

Ike: The Black Knight tried to take the medallion from my father, and killed him. Tell me, Sephiran, whose plan was that?! Ashnard's...or yours?!

Sanaki: Calm down, Ike! Sephiran? Would you please explain?
Sephiran: Sir Ike, I'm afraid your father's death was an unfortunate result of Zelgius's own personal agenda. I did not order Sir Gawain killed. However, I must admit that I did ask him to seize the medallion and hand it over to King Ashnard. The goddess was to be freed...and all living creatures destroyed.
Sanaki: ...
Sanaki: Come again?!
Ike: You're insane!
Sephiran: I couldn't be more sane, Sir Ike. Attend and learn... My aim has always been to wake Ashera so that she might pass judgment on all the people of the world. What I needed was a war that would spread all across the continent. How could I achieve this? My attention turned to the young Daein prince... I could use the fiery Ashnard for my purposes. He was ambitious, a fierce warrior, and more than anything, he had an earnest desire to change the world. When I allowed him to know of the goddess sealed inside the medallion, he became determined to set her free. We could use heron galdrar or a massive, continent-spanning war to throw the world into chaos.
Sanaki: Lord Sephiran, what are you saying? Are you saying you wanted this? You can't be serious!
Sephiran: Sanaki, my long life has shown me the people of this world deserve only destruction. The selfishness, the brutality... The disregard for others, the endlessly quarreling laguz and beorc. We have been given many chances to correct our behavior and ourselves, and have squandered them all. The only remaining hope for a peaceful, orderly world is for Ashera to wipe us all out and begin again. To fulfill my ambition of destroying all beings, I had to use you... I had to betray you.
Sanaki: This is some kind of monstrous joke...

Ike: So you've been pulling the strings all along?
Sephiran: Correct.
Ike: Beyond just Empress Sanaki, you were trusted by a lot of people. Sephiran, I need to understand... Did you really betray all of those people?
Sephiran: I did.
^start 
Ike: I don’t need to hear anything else, then. I’m going to make your death as painful as I know how.

Ike: I don't get it... Why would you wake the goddess to pass judgment on us? Tell us why! How could you want that?!
Sephiran: It wouldn't make any difference if I told you. You would have to live a few centuries before you could understand.
Ike: Years ago, my father went into hiding with the medallion. At the time, he got help from both you and Zelgius. Does this have anything to do with that?
Sephiran: Hmm, you seem to have sparked a distant memory of mine.
Ike: Answer me. Why did you do this?
Sephiran: I'm sorry, I can't tell you. At least, not in any way you would understand.
Ike: Then I'll have to make you talk!
^end
Sanaki: This can't be happening! I won't fight you Sephiran. I can't!
Sephiran: Poor Sanaki.... You'll have no choice but to fight. The doors leading to Ashera are sealed by my very own magic. Killing me is your only way through.
Sanaki: Sephiran!
Yune: So it was you?  All those memories penetrating my mind were yours... Since we entered this place, I've seen what you've been thinking, Lehran. Give it up.
Sephiran: Goddess Yune... Why do you insist on calling me that name? I discarded it so long ago, Yune. I've changed. Lehran is a thing of the past. All I want now...is the end of all that is. Please don't stop me.
Yune: Lehran...

Sephiran: You're running out of time. At this rate, I wouldn't count on being able to face the goddess. I would hate to see you denied after coming all this way.
Sephiran: Well, now you know who brought you here and why... I suppose that just leaves our fight to the death to take care of.

@Conversation
Gareth: I am about to tell you a very old story--a story you should know, as the new king of Goldoa. This is one of the oldest and most heavily guarded secrets in all of Tellius. You'll find no trace of it in any histories or sagas.
Micaiah: If it's that important, maybe we should go somewhere else. Other people might hear us.
Gareth: Hmm. What do you think, Nasir?
Nasir: I called upon Lady Micaiah because I felt that she should know the story as well. No... I think now is the time to let everyone know. Would that be all right, Your Majesty?
Kurthnaga: There will be no secrets from now on. Tell us everything.
Gareth: As you wish, Your Majesty. In the dawn of this age, after the goddesses began their long slumber, the kingdom of Begnion was established. In those early days, laguz and beorc lived side by side in harmony and peace. Yes, that kingdom would become the Begnion Empire. The hero Altina was chosen to be the kingdom's first queen. Lehran supported her as an advisor...and as a husband.
Micaiah: What!?
Nasir: Despite their differences, Lehran and Altina loved each other very deeply.
Kurthnaga: The people accepted a marriage between a laguz and a beorc?
Nasir: That was what King Dheginsea said. This was before the people thought of such differences. They saw only a queen and her husband.
Gareth: At this time, King Dheginsea also created his own kingdom far from other laguz tribes and beorc nations. He believed that the dragon tribe was too powerful to interact equally with other tribes and peoples. That kingdom became Goldoa.
Nasir: Begnion had been established for four years when King Dheginsea received news that Altina had become pregnant. The news brought great joy. You see, the news was also quite surprising. There had been other unions between beorc and laguz, but until Altina's pregnancy, no children had ever been conceived. Indeed, hers was the first child ever to be born of beorc and laguz.
Gareth: As close friends of both Altina and Lehran, both King Dheginsea and Soan rejoiced at the news. The child would be the first to carry the joined blood of both laguz and beorc. The king said that the baby would become a symbol of peace between the two peoples.
Nasir: But joy over the child's birth did not last. Soon after the child was born, Lehran lost all the powers of the laguz. He could not transform any longer, nor could he sing galdrar.
Gareth: It became apparent that the child of such a union neutralizes the laguz parent's powers. To make matters worse, the child bears only the characteristics of a beorc.
Nasir: Lehran felt he was no longer a true laguz, and felt he could no longer act as a bridge between the goddess and the people of Tellius. He lost hope, and also his mind...at least temporarily. He attempted suicide several times, which is an unthinkable taboo for anyone who has sworn to serve the goddess.
Gareth: King Dheginsea fell into despair. If people caught wind of this news, he believed it would create a deep rift between the two peoples. The king was especially concerned about the reaction from the laguz. They might interpret the birth as a herald of their eventual end. Some might even attempt to harm the child.
Kurthnaga: Lehran needed to hear the voice of the goddess then more than ever before... But he could no longer sing the galdr of release. Is that what happened?
Nasir: Just so. Lehran was forced to make a very difficult decision to protect the peace between beorc and laguz. He decided to retreat into seclusion and consider the problem. Once he regained his sanity, he announced his decision.
Gareth: Lehran was forced to ask the  unthinkable of his wife, his aides, and close friends: "For the sake of Begnion, you must tell the people that I died in an accident. Tell them the birth was merely a false rumor."
Nasir: Lehran left the medallion to his tribe, moving to Goldoa under King Dheginsea's protection. He simply disappeared from history after that.
Gareth: After Lehran had left and life returned to normal, Altina eventually welcomed a beorc husband. She raised the child she'd had with Lehran as though it were an ordinary beorc child, born of her new husband. Since then, marriages between laguz and beorc have been forbidden. It became known as a "crime against the goddess."
Nasir: Even so, the taboo was broken several times over the next few decades. Usually no child was conceived, but when there was, it was swiftly covered up. The parents soon learned what it meant to bear a child who possessed both laguz and beorc blood. After they learned of the consequences, none of these parents ever rejected the edict forbidding it.
Gareth: The child was to be raised by the beorc parent, and raised as a beorc child. That should have been enough to hide everything, end of story.
Nasir: It was several generations later that the certain descendants began to manifest physical marks which indicated their ancestors' sins. Fortunately, this mark looked very similar to the marks on those protected by spirits. They could pass as students of the dark arts for at least a few years. Unfortunately, the Branded lived much longer than beorc.
Gareth: Most Branded chose to hide, living outside of ordinary society, and they disappeared into the shadows of history. Rumors had already begun to spread across Begnion, however. The Branded were shunned and cast out wherever they lived. Where the laguz held power, they persecuted the Branded and executed them in honor killings.
Micaiah: That's horrible!
Gareth: It was King Dheginsea's opinion that these were crimes that he had to carry on his conscience. From the beginning, he realized that he and the others in power had made a mistake. They understood that they should have revealed everything about Altina and Lehran's child. The people should have been told the truth. But since they'd kept the truth from everyone, the Branded were marked as unclean, persecuted wherever they traveled.
Nasir: Here is the family tree for Lehran and Altina's bloodline. Only King Dheginsea knew the truth. Until now.
Kurthnaga: Father... You've had to endure this burden alone for so long.
Gareth: It was the same in Lady Almedha's case. When she lost her powers after giving birth to the Mad King's son, King Dheginsea had no choice but to hide the truth from everyone. So he chose to hide Almedha from everyone. Better to deny her existence than be forced to explain long-hidden secrets.
Nasir: In the process, he'd lost someone even more dear to him. Prince Rajaion. He deeply regretted his decision when he learned of the prince's death. The only choice left for King Dheginsea was to remain stubbornly neutral in all wars on the continent. He hoped--in vain--to keep the goddess from waking up before the thousand years had elapsed.
Kurthnaga: I'm such a fool... I had no idea what Father went through. All I did was deny what he fought for.
Micaiah: Kurth...
Gareth: Your Majesty. You are the king now. ?You know that it is a sin to fight against the goddess, and yet you've chosen to move forward.
Nasir: King Dheginsea left everything to you. You must succeed. Do not be afraid of what lies beyond. Forge ahead.
Kurthnaga: I understand. I shall be true to my convictions. I have no more doubts.

Ike: Nasir!
Nasir: Ike. I’m sorry about earlier.
Ike: That’s all right. I know that you were in a tight spot.
Gareth: Ahh, the beorc hero. We will follow King Kurthnaga from now on. If he wishes to fight alongside you, I shall assist.
Ike: I see. Then you should receive a blessing of protection from the goddess Yune.
Nasir: We already have. We can fight Ashera now.
Ike: You’d lend us all of your might?
Nasir: Of course.
Gareth: We swear upon the good name of the dragon tribe that we shall do our best.

@Battle
Sephiran: Mortals cannot stand against gods! Don't you see the futility of what you're doing?

Sephiran: The laguz and beorc have doomed each other with their mutual hatred. You have brought extinction on yourselves!

@Boss-Talk 
%Reyson,Sephiran
Sephiran: Go back to your forest, heron. You are like me, an avatar of order. You understand what I must do. Bask in the light of Ashera's judgment. It holds no fear for you!
Reyson: I refuse to save only myself. Such an act would be an unforgivable betrayal. I will stand by my companions, and fight to the end.
Sephiran: Are you sure you're of the heron tribe? I've never met a heron like you... Your will is extraordinarily strong.

%Rafiel,Sephiran 
Rafiel: It is you... Now that I’ve seen your face... I know that you once went by another name.
Sephiran: You are mistaken. I am known as Sephiran, and nothing else.
Rafiel: You have closed your heart. Why?
Sephiran: ...I have nothing more to say. Nothing.

%Leanne,Sephiran 
Leanne: (You... It... it can’t be...)
Sephiran: (Go back to the forest. This is not where you should be.)
Leanne: (No! I’m staying here with everyone! These people are my friends... my family! I will not leave them!)
Sephiran: Has the heron clan changed so much? They’ve always been so passive and accepting of their natural fate...

%Sanaki,Sephiran
Sanaki: ...Sephiran... Everything you've ever told me, every time you gave your hand to me, every time you smiled... They were all lies? ...You're the most appalling fraud I've ever known!
Sephiran: No, Lady Sanaki... I've actually lied to you very little. What I have done is hold things back. I've also twisted the truth from time to time... But I have only told you one blatant falsehood. That one lie has weighed heavily on me. It makes me hate myself sometimes.
Sanaki: Sephiran...
Sephiran: I'll always care deeply for you, my little Lady Sanaki... You are my sun and my moon. I never wished to harm you. Please... You must understand...
Sanaki: ...No! Sephiran, no!

@Boss 
%Jill,Sephiran
Jill: It's your fault what happened in Daein! Every pointless death in this war is on your head! Sephiran, Duke of Persis... History will remember you as the worst kind of man.
Sephiran: Everything. It's all been my fault. You should know one more thing, however. I also had a hand in the death of your father.
Jill: ...Die, monster!

%Haar,Sephiran
Haar: We never spent much time together when I was in Begnion... But, Sephiran... I think I know you pretty well.
Sephiran: I haven't forgotten you, Haar. Shiharam's hotshot young protege. You were both exemplary soldiers. Your defection from the Begnion dracoknights was a huge loss.
Haar: Hmmm... Sort of like the huge loss when the senators managed to defeat all those great changes you proposed?
Sephiran: ...
Haar: I suppose if any of those changes had happened, we wouldn't be here now. Am I wrong?
Sephiran: An interesting question... I'm honestly not sure, but that's all I can say about that.
Haar: Too bad. For you, and for me.

%Naesala,Sephiran 
Sephiran: King Naesala, it seems as if everything went well with the pact.
Naesala: Yes, for which I am thankful. The blood pact yoked Kilvas to your country’s control... but we no longer suffer the curse for opposing the tyrannical edicts of your corrupt, bloated senators. Present company excluded, of course.
Sephiran: I’m quite glad to hear it.
Naesala: You shouldn’t be. You’re not like the other senators, but your insane agenda has turned my nation to stone! Freedom means nothing to a statue.
Sephiran: My goal was simply to save Sanaki. With your help, she is safe. The mutual benefit of your country was a happy accident, so don’t feel indebted to me.
Naesala: So you won’t object when I tear your lungs out here and now?
Sephiran: By all means. Be my guest.

%Nailah,Sephiran 
Nailah: Who would’ve guessed that a madman on the other side of the desert would somehow threaten Hatari?
Sephiran: Hatari. I’m sorry I didn’t get a chance to see it. The wolf tribe has survived all this time in the far corner of the world. Only the goddess could have known that.
Nailah: Perhaps even she didn’t know it. Your goddess isn’t perfect, you know. Does an imperfect goddess have the right to judge imperfect beings?
Sephiran: I see your point. Does the creator retain the right to destroy her creations when they are no longer what she envisioned? I imagine we could discuss this sometime... if only we had more time. I believe you alone might be able to sway my opinion on this, Lady Nailah, Queen of Wolves.
Nailah: You have too many opinions. I’m done talking.

%Oliver,Sephiran
Sephiran: Duke of Tanas, imagine seeing you here!
Oliver: Lord Sephiran, as lovely as always. But has it come to this? Must we fight to the death, and deprive the world of one of our beautiful countenances? Can other lovers of beauty endure such a loss?
Sephiran: I confess that your presence has me bewildered. Could this be part of Yune’s plan? I simply never would have imagined you here. Your presence proves that Tellius is unravelling at the seams. Judgement cannot come soon enough.

%Sigrun,Sephiran
Sigrun: Lord Sephiran, explain yourself! Your reasons for deceiving our empress may prevent me from striking you down as an enemy to the crown!
Sephiran: I have nothing to say to you. I am merely an obstacle. Do what you must do.
Sigrun: Sanaki trusted you! And so did I. You’ve turned your back on us, and the empire. How is that even possible?
Sephiran: Sigrun, do with me what you will. Promise me that you will look after Lady Sanaki from now on.
Sigrun: I will. I will protect her from the likes of you.

%Tanith,Sephiran
Tanith: So as long as you’re alive, the doors don’t open? I’ve got an easy solution to that problem.
Sephiran: Tanith, you are a kind woman.
Tanith: Don’t flatter yourself. I do this only for Lady Sanaki.

%Astrid,Sephiran 
Astrid: Lord Sephiran, your every action in office earned you the trust of millions of Begnion citizens. I can’t believe that you could stab every one of them in the back like that.
Sephiran: Young lady... Actually, I should address you properly... Astrid of the Crimean Royal Knights. Did you happen to stop by your home on the way here?
Astrid: No, I didn’t.
Sephiran: Aren’t you worried about your family? Perhaps you should check on them...
Astrid: No. Everyone’s fine. Even if they’re frozen solid, I’m going to save them. I have nothing at all to worry about.
Sephiran: You’ve grown stronger. But your heart hasn’t changed. Good.

%Pelleas,Sephiran
Sephiran: King Pelleas, correct? Aren't you brave, coming all this way!
Pelleas: If you're the one who's been pulling the strings behind all this, please tell me... Who... Who am I?
Sephiran: ...I don't know. All I know is that you are a powerful practitioner of magic... I know you were an orphan born and raised in Daein. But that is all Izuka ever told me.
Pelleas: So... I'm not Ashnard's true son?
Sephiran: No, you're not. Ashnard's son is of dragon tribe blood and is thus Branded.
Pelleas: I think I'm going to be ill...
Sephiran: Be assured that you were essential to Daein's reconstruction, which was a vital step towards waking the goddess. Fortunately, Izuka was able to use you to execute my plan.
Pelleas: You are going to pay! You are going to...BLAAARRRGH!

%Tibarn,Sephiran
Sephiran: Hello, King Tibarn.. I thought I might see you. Only the strongest reach the top. It's only natural that you would be among them.
Tibarn: You know what? I don't believe you're the big, bad, evil guy you want us to think you are.
Sephiran: What could you be talking about?
Tibarn: Ah, I was right! I see it in your eyes. I've been around for a while, and learned a bit about spotting fakes. So now that your secret's out, maybe you'd like to open up and tell me: Who are you really?
Sephiran: ...

%Sothe,Sephiran
Sothe: Here goes...
Sephiran: Hello, child... I'm a little surprised to see an ordinary boy like you, fighting for the world. This day is full of surprises!
Sothe: No one's more surprised than me. I can't read people's feelings like Micaiah... I'm not invincible in battle like Ike... Between all these laguz kings and great beorc heroes, I don't really belong here.
Sephiran: Then why are you here?
Sothe: Because there's one thing that I can't afford to lose. Micaiah. I've come all this way just to protect her... I won't lose her now.
Sephiran: The depth of your feelings... Might I ask your name?
Sothe: Sothe. Now if you want to stand in our way, I'm prepared to cut you down.

%Micaiah,Sephiran
Micaiah: You... I've heard about you. Have we...met before?
Sephiran: The Silver-Haired Maiden. It's taken so long to finally meet you. If I had known you still lived, I... I... No, it's too late. This changes nothing. I cannot falter.
Micaiah: What is the matter with you?
Sephiran: I'm just overly sensitive. Don't feign concern over me.

%Ike,Sephiran
Ike: I have to ask, Sephiran. What are you after? What's this all about?
Sephiran: Why do you wish to know? You would achieve nothing by learning my reasons. You would help no one. I lost faith in lesser beings, and desire an end to them. That's all.
Ike: So why did you save me on that day?
Sephiran: May I ask you a favor, Ike? Tell me how you feel about it now. Can you bear recalling those horrific memories?
Ike: Yes... I'm fine, now. But I suppose at the time I wouldn't have been able to take it.
Sephiran: All beings endure tragedies for as long as they continue to live. It has always been the case that suffering is unavoidable. And this grim reality plays out over and over, in every country, under every ruler... As long as there are beings who feel, they will feel pain.
Ike: So what? We should all just give in and die? Put it behind you. Deal with it.
Sephiran: Do not make light of this...
Ike: I'm not. Sephiran, I'm extremely grateful that you once helped me through a terrible time. But I have accepted that occasionally we all have to deal with hard times. I've had pain, I've had suffering, and I have gotten up and moved on. I don't try to forget what happened that day. I just accept it... And neither that or anything else will ever stop me.
Sephiran: You are a strong man, Ike, son of Gawain. But not everyone is as strong as you...

@Boss
Sephiran: At last... I'm dying.

@Flashback 
Female Voice 1: What? It can't be true! Our apostle...
Male Voice 2: Can't believe it myself. But the senators made an announcement! It must be true!
Male Voice 1: Pardon me? Has something happened to the apostle?
Male Voice 2: Oh, my lord sage! The apostle! She's...she's dead.
Male Voice 1: What? How?
Female Voice 1: According to the senators' announcement, she was assassinated by the Serenes herons.
Male Voice 2: They look so gentle, like they couldn't harm a fly, but... They're nothing but beasts, no better than the other sub-humans!
Male Voice 1: Peace, friends! This is simply not possible. The heron tribe could never assassinate anyone, they...
Male Voice 2: She's dead, isn't she? Those damned sub-humans... Every last one of 'em's got to die! For the apostle!
Female Voice 1: That's the truth! They're nothing but monsters! Oh, I wish I could kill them myself!
Male Voice 2: You can! Grab a weapon! Grab a torch! Come on! We'll burn that forest to ash and wipe 'em all out.
Male Voice 1: ...No, you mustn't...

Male Voice 2: What's wrong, my lord sage? You don't look well. Are you feeling all right?
Male Voice 1: Ungh!
Female Voice 1: GWAAAAAHHHH! Wings! From the sage's back! Wings... He's one of them! He's a monster!
Male Voice 2: You're nothin' but a lying sub-human piece of filth! How dare you pretend to be one of us! Get him!
Male Voice 1: The medallion must be quelled. I cannot allow this madness to come to pass! Judgment...the goddess's judgment...


Male Voice 1: NO! What have they done? The forest...the trees... The herons were innocent... Why?

Male Voice 1: The medallion... I must quell the chaotic energies! Must...calm them...

Male Voice 1: Ungh! NO! Chaos...madness... So much...anger...so much...pain...
Male Voice 1: Why? Why was my family taken? Why? Why was my forest destroyed? The apostle did not deserve this fate... Killed by her innocence...her murderers free to seize power... This is monstrous! This world does need beorc. And the laguz...are deeply flawed. There is no need to wait for the covenant's thousand years. Awaken! Oh, Goddess. Awaken...and judge.

@End
Micaiah: ...Sephiran!
Sanaki: Sephiran! Hold on! Open your eyes!
Micaiah: Yune...help me. What should I do? ...What? Really? ...OK. I'll try.
Sephiran: Sana...ki...
Sanaki: Sephiran! You can hear me?! S-somebody help! He's wounded!
Yune: I'm sorry, Sanaki. The doors leading to Ashera won't open while he's alive. I can't save him.
Sephiran: That's correct. Thank you, Yune. I am sincerely grateful.
Yune: Death is all you've wanted since this started. Everything else has been little more than a terrible side effect. I'm sorry that this was your only goal, but I am happy to help you achieve it. Sephiran, I see now what you were going through. It must have been hard. I wish I could have helped you.
Sephiran: Please. Don't mourn for me. I'm not worth it.
Yune: I'm so sorry. I wanted to help you! I really did!
Sephiran: Forget about me. This path was my decision...my tragic mistake.
Sephiran: Lady... Sanaki... I want you to...have this. This is...the Rudol Gem. Wear it...in memory of me. It will protect you. Please forgive me... I'm sorry I...lied to you.
^start
Sanaki: Sephiran... Don't worry. We still have all the time we spent together... Nobody can take that away. Nobody.
Sephiran: Thank you... My Lady Sanaki... I'll...be leaving you now. Zel...gius...is waiting. 
Sanaki: Sephiran... No... Nooooooooo!
Ike: Ashera is waiting just beyond those doors... Let’s go.
Yune: I’m sorry, Sephiran. I once lost hope in the laguz and beorc, too. I can see now that my punishment was far too strict. I was young and naive, and so sure that I was right. I wish I could have shown you the error of my ways, Sephir-- Lehran. Good-bye.

Sanaki: Sephiran... Don’t worry. We still have all the time we spent together... Nobody can take that away. Nobody.
Sephiran: Thank you... My Lady Sanaki... I’ll...be leaving you now. Zel...gius...is waiting. ...Al...ti...na...
Sanaki: Sephiran! No... Noooooooo!
Yune: Now! Please, Micaiah!
Micaiah: Don’t die... You can’t die...
Sanaki: ...He's...breathing? Sephiran is breathing!
Micaiah: Ahh... Just in time.
Sanaki: You saved him! Thank you! Micaiah, thank you!
Yune: Micaiah is completely spent. She's sorry, but she won't be able to fight in the next battle. But there's no time. Hurry!
Sanaki: Goddess Yune. Is there something you haven't told us about you and Sephiran?
Yune: He saved my life.
Sanaki: Y-your life? Sephiran saved the life of a goddess? Is there something you haven't told us about Sephiran, then? Yune: He'll wake up in just a moment. Then you can ask him directly.
Sanaki: Oh. All right, I'll do that.
Ike: Why did you save him?
Yune: Should I not have?
Ike: I can think of a few reasons why you shouldn't have, yes!
Ike: Hey! Get up. Now.
Yune: Take it easy on him! He's had a hard day!
Sephiran: ...unh... ...hhhuuunnn.... I... I'm alive?
Yune: Lehran!
Sephiran: Goddess Yune... Why? Why did you--
Yune: Because I want you to live! You've always taken care of me, and I couldn't bear it if it ended like this.
Sephiran: But...I've lost all my hope. All hope in the world and the people in it... I did what I did...for future generations, so they wouldn't have to live in this world. Please, Yune, let me die.
Yune: I won't, Lehran. I won't!
Ike: Lehran? Now he's some kind of hero-saint?
Sephiran: ...
Ike: If death is what you really want, then I'm not going to let it happen on my watch. I don't care what you've gone through. I don't care how much you've suffered. What you've done is unforgivable.
Yune: Stop it, Ike!
Sephiran: ...
Ike: Ashera is waiting. It's time for the final confrontation with her. You can come... If you want to.
Sephiran: You... You're asking me to turn my back on goddess Ashera?
Ike: If you really want the total extinction of beorc and laguz alike, then you can just lie here like a lump. If not, this is your last chance to start rectifying your mistakes. Think hard on that.
Yune: But...Ike!
Sephiran: ...
Yune: I'll be waiting for you, Lehran.
^end

/***EOF***/
@Intro
Senator: General Zelgius! Why did you retreat so quickly?! Order an all-out attack!
Zelgius: The Laguz Alliance is inching closer after successfully crossing the river. It would be unwise to attack them head-on at this time.
Senator: At this time? That is for me to decide! You are a fool, Zelgius! The senate wants all sub-humans roaming our lands to be exterminated at once! I forbid you to retreat from now on! Am I understood, Zelgius?
Levail: Pardon my impertinence, but that is madne--
Zelgius: I understand, my lord. I will do my best to end this fighting as soon as possible.
Levail: But, General Zelgius!

Levail: General Zelgius! Why didn't you say anything? The senator's orders are madness!
Zelgius: Don't make me repeat myself. We soldiers are in no position to question the orders of our superiors.
Levail: But I thought... No, I was certain that you would steer the military in the right direction.

Levail: General Zelgius! ...

Soren: I'm late. My apologies.
Skrimir: Ah, here comes the great strategist! Don't be so shy. Come sit next to me.
Soren: Not if you begged me, Skrimir. 
Titania: Soren! I'm so sorry. He's rude to everyone, but strangers especially.
Skrimir: You still don't trust me? Then I will take the first step. I admit that we won the last battle thanks to your cleverness. I underestimated the wisdom of the beorc. As a general of Gallia, you have my thanks.
Soren: ...You're welcome.
Skrimir: What do we do next? We hit Begnion hard in the last battle. Surely we will use this opportunity to wipe out the enemy entirely?
Soren: Actually, it would be unwise to launch a new offensive now. I recommend we negotiate a peace treaty with Begnion.
Skrimir: What?! You'd give up our best opportunity to crush Begnion for some peace treaty?!
Soren: For once, please try to think for a moment, Skrimir. Yes, we crossed the river, but we haven't so much as touched the Central Army. Not one scratch. Consequently, Begnion still has the advantage. It would be foolish to press the attack.
Skrimir: I must ask you to think harder! A peace treaty? Now? My soldiers will never accept this! We need another way!
Ike: What do you think, Ranulf? Do you feel the same way?
Ranulf: Well... It's not so much how I feel, but how we laguz are as a species. Once the fighting begins, laguz can't see anything except the enemy in front of them. In a long fight like this, it's even harder to keep ourselves in check.
Tibarn: The same goes for my tribe. If we were to stop fighting now, I'd have to go around knocking every one of my men unconscious.
Ranulf: But rushing headlong into the enemy and getting killed is not an option. Soren, can you think of something? ...Maybe it's too much to ask.
Soren: No, I can do it... ...Just let me think.  ...All right, I have it. Gather around the map. I'll explain what we have to do.

Lyre: Hey, Captain Ranulf! The hawk king's decoy attack got the Begnion forces to move out!
Ranulf: Good. Our unit will hit them from the north, Ike from the south, and Skrimir from the west. I'm impressed. If everything goes according to plan, Soren will have delivered another easy victory.
Kyza: Captain! We appear to have a situation! General Skrimir's western forces are charging down the cliff!
Ranulf: What?! I told him to keep his men under control at all costs!
Kyza: Apparently, an enemy commander challenged General Skrimir to a duel. He accepted, of course. He always was an impatient one. The challenger was a large raven-haired beorc, clad in stunning crimson armor.
Ranulf: That must be Zelgius. No, no, no! Skrimir can't win. He'll get slaughtered! Send a message to Tibarn and Ike. Tell them I'm going to save Skrimir. We can't let him do this!


Titania: Ike! A company of enemy troops has appeared to the south of Skrimir's forces.
Soren: General Zelgius seems to be in command.
Ike: Uh oh. That's not good.
Soren: If Skrimir's force collapses, we'll get penned in by Begnion. We must change our strategy. Ike, let's help with the rescue. You can't take everyone, though. Assemble a strike force to accompany you.
Ike: Got it. Titania, let Tibarn know what's going on.



Ike: Where's Skrimir?
Ranulf: He charged up that cliff, chasing after Zelgius.
Ike: We have to get up there. The two of us might be able to save him from Zelgius.
Ranulf: Kyza, can you carve us a path to the top?
Kyza: Certainly, Captain. I'd be happy to. We'll neutralize anyone in your way. You can count on me, sir.
Ike: All right. Let's clear this pass. Time is a factor here, everyone, so let's make this quick!

@Boss
Callum: None shall pass. General Zelgius forbids it!

%Ranulf,Callum
Callum: So, sub-human. Are you worried about your general?
Ranulf: You bet I'm worried! Without us looking after him, who knows what kind of trouble that hothead might get himself into! You can see we're in a big hurry. Get out of my way, or I'll move you. Painfully.
Callum: Never! If you wish to reach the top, you must "move" me. Do your best, sub-human.

%Ike,Callum
Callum: You will not gain the peak, nor shall I yield my position. You will wait for the duel to finish.
Ike: Duel?
Callum: Correct. The general does not wish to be disturbed during his duel. I'm certain that it will be over very soon. You may then pass and fetch the carcass of your general.

@Boss
Callum: You are too late... The general... He is strong...

@Battle
Ranulf: I have a bad feeling about this... Ike! Com on, there's no more time!

Ike: Ranulf, this way! Hurry!

@End
Ranulf:  No!

Ranulf: Skrimir!
Ike: Stop, Ranulf! Don't get too close!

Zelgius: Heed my words, Laguz Alliance! I am Zelgius, general of the Begnion Central Army! Your general has fallen to my blade in single combat! My army does not wish to continue this senseless bloodshed. Leave this place immediately! Soldiers of Begnion! I forbid you to attack the fleeing laguz soldiers! This fight is finished!
Begnion: General Zelgius is amazing! He kept the damage on both sides to a minimum!
Begnion: Yeah, that's great, but... I wanted to fight! How am I going to get my kid a stuffed laguz now?
Gallia: No... General Skrimir was defeated?! By a beorc?!
Gallia: If General Skrimir is defeated, we must fight on in his name! We must get revenge! Don't be fooled by that human! Fight on, brothers!
Ranulf: Stop! We will fall back! Brothers, listen to me! I swear upon my life that I'll take Skrimir back with us! Fall back!
Zelgius: A wise choice.

Zelgius: Levail. Go back to base camp. I have business to take care of.


Ranulf: What are you plotting? You could have crushed us.
Zelgius: True. That's exactly what the heads of the senate want. But the apostle feels differently. The apostle wishes to resolve this conflict peacefully. Begnion is not united on this idea, however. So, how about this? Arrange a peace proposal from your people. The apostle would accept it.
Ike: But...to begin a peace talk under the current circumstances...
Zelgius: The most favorable opportunity for a peace talk would have been when you crossed the river. You missed that chance, and now look at where you are.
Ranulf: ...
Zelgius: Think it over. I'll give you three days. Request a peace talk within that time. If that isn't possible, negotiations are over. I sincerely hope that won't be the case.  As for the heir of King Caineghis, he will be fine. Treat his wounds quickly.
Ike: You mean you didn't finish him off? Why not?
Zelgius: It does not matter who the enemy is. If there is a way to avoid taking a life, that is the path I will choose. Leave now. I swear upon my name that my men will not attack as you retreat. 


Tibarn: ...Three days, huh? What will the beast tribe do, Ranulf? What will become of Gallia?
Ranulf: I'm sorry, Tibarn. Now that Skrimir has been incapacitated... Gallia can't go on any further.
Tibarn: Right... That's too bad. I guess the Laguz Alliance has to take a break, then.
Ike: What about you? Will Phoenicis agree to a peace talk?
Tibarn: I haven't decided. Our force lacks numbers and supplies. We can't possibly take them on, but... I imagine that a "peace talk" would be far from pleasant.
Ranulf: General Zelgius seems like a trustworthy beorc. I also know from the Mad King's War that even the apostle is not a bad person at heart. But in reality, the senate controls Begnion right now. They were the ones who killed our messenger.
Ike: I know that General Zelgius can't disobey orders from the senate. But what about the apostle? She's Begnion's supreme leader, right? Can't we just contact her directly?
Reyson: Trust me, we tried. All our efforts were in vain. It's not just the laguz, either. Tanith said that the apostle won't even meet with the Holy Guards these days.
Ranulf: Wait, she won't meet with Tanith? But Tanith has been at her side forever! There's something very wrong with all this...
Ike: What is happening in Begnion?
Tibarn: Well, we'll stick around and see what happens. The Laguz Alliance will disband temporarily. The problem is Gallia's retreat. You've got a lot of ground to cover before Begnion attacks in three days.
Ranulf: Agreed...

@Narration
General Zelgius's plan succeeds in breaking the morale and momentum of the laguz forces. Skrimir accepts a challenge to single combat with Zelgius and barely escapes with his life. His defeat sends a wave of doubt and fear through the Laguz Alliance.
Ranulf, knowing that the situation has turned against them, orders a full retreat, and the beast tribes use the three days offered by Zelgius to recross the Ribahn and begin the long march back to Gallia.

@Conversation 
Aimee: Oh, you have no idea how happy you've made me! Do you have any idea how long I've been waiting for this?
Shinon: Hey, I'm a busy guy. But I'm glad to hear it, I guess.
Aimee: Don't be so cold! You could do this for me anytime, if you want. You know I'll pay good money.
Shinon: No thanks. It's more trouble than it's worth.
Aimee: I'll make it worth your time. How about it, baby? You could leave your mercenary lifestyle behind, and...
Ike: Uh... What the heck are you talking about?
Aimee: Ike! My hero! Are you here to see me?
Shinon: Hmph. I'm outta here.
Aimee: Hey, wait! What about what I owe you?
Shinon: Give it to him! And don't tell him anything that he doesn't need to know!
Aimee: ...And now he's gone. What a selfish man.
Ike: Care to tell me what's going on?
Aimee: Ike, no! Are you feeling jealous? Don't you worry, darling. There's only room for you in my heart. Really!
Ike: You're scaring me, Aimee.
Aimee: Oh, come on. It's just a joke! Business only, I promise. First, this is for you.
Ike: A blue gem?
Aimee: You heard what the man said. I'm supposed to pay you instead.
Ike: You're paying us? I'm very confused. I'd assumed that Shinon owed you money, or something.
Aimee: No, no. Nothing like that. This is what I owe him for-- Oops, he told me not to say.
Ike: Aimee? I'm getting scared again.
Aimee: All right, fine. It's a payment for a bow.
Ike: A bow?
Aimee: I paid a lot for a bow he made me. I'm going to offer it as a one-of-a-kind item at the shop.
Ike: Right... Is that why Rolf is making bows now? He mentioned something about bows being good income in emergencies.
Aimee: Probably. Rolf is learning from a good teacher, but he's still no match for the master himself.
Ike: Rolf is Shinon's student?
Aimee: Oh, dang. You think that was a secret, too?
Ike: How should I know? Shinon wouldn't tell me that he smelled smoke if I was on fire.
Aimee: Well... I don't think Shinon likes people. Especially you, for some reason. I wonder why he came back to you after he left the Greil Mercenaries during the war?
Ike: Shinon likes our little group. I know that much. This is probably his way of trying to help us be less broke.
Aimee: You think so? Why wouldn't he just come out and say so? He's so strange like that.
Ike: I'll keep this conversation a secret. I don't want to risk losing Shinon by putting him on the defensive about all this.
Aimee: Right. It's a secret between you and me, Ike!

/***EOF***/
@Intro
Ranulf: King Tibarn! Queen Elincia! We may need to halt for a bit.
Tibarn: Why? What's the problem?
Ranulf: We have some stragglers lagging behind.

Tibarn: You mean Almedha and Pelleas are slowing us down again. We have to reach the Tower of Guidance as soon as possible. We can't have them always hampering our progress.
Elincia: But we have no idea when the Disciples of Order might attack. We need to keep everyone together, for safety's sake.
Tibarn: Reyson! We'll rest here. You can land and give your wings a break.
Ranulf: Reyson, I remember when a trip like this would have exhausted you. I'm impressed at how well you're handling it.
Reyson: Yes, physically I'm quite healthy. But I can't say that I'm really happy about that...
Elincia: Why would that be?
Reyson: We of the heron clan can feel the energies of others. In times of war, negative energy is dominant, and we sicken. Now that all of the people have been turned to stone, the energy is gone and, physically, I feel much better. It's unsettling to feel healthy and know that the reason is such a sad one.

Elincia: It's a terrible irony... We finally have the peace we've been praying for, at the cost of all freedom, everywhere.
Reyson: Could this truly be the world that Goddess Ashera wants for us?
Ranulf: No, this is the world she had to give us after we ruined hers.
Tibarn: ...

Tibarn: Ah, welcome back. Any sign of the Disciples of Order?
Janaff: Unfortunately, no.
Tibarn: I don't like this. Why are they leaving us alone?
Ranulf: I'm not sure I see the problem, Tibarn. If they're going to let us stroll on through, I won't complain.
Tibarn: Not me. Right or wrong, I would prefer a stand-up fight. Right now, even.
Elincia: What are you saying, Tibarn? how could you wish that upon us? I don't understand you.
Tibarn: Right now, the world is calm, peaceful...almost eerily so. It almost feels...comfortable. If this goes on, we might relax, lose our edge. I'm worried that we'll get careless.
Elincia: Hmm...
Tibarn: Everyone, let's get one thing perfectly clear here...This isn't a natural peace. It's Ashera's work. Don't forget for an instant that the world isn't supposed to be like this. It should be noisy, vibrant, and chaotic.
Elincia: You're right. A peace built on the sacrifice of so many lives is monstrous and unjust. It cannot be allowed to stand.
Ranulf: I didn't mean that I'm losing motivation to save the petrified people. It's just that, before we started talking about it, I was feeling...complacent. Is it just me?
Tibarn: The spirit of order is hanging heavy across the land. When we fight, we get a dose of chaos, which may help us get back in touch with our true selves. If our enemy has also figured that out, it might explain why they're staying away.

Almedha: Pelleas, dear, how are you feeling?
Pelleas: Mother, I'm fine. Please stop asking after my health.
Almedha: But you're so pale, darling. You were always such a sickly little boy... You should rest a while. We can't have you exhausting yourself.
Pelleas: No, Mother... If we stop walking now, we would slow the others.
Almedha: Never mind them, sweetheart, they can wait. You should take a nice rest under that tree. Son, remember that you are a scion of both Daein's and Goldoa's royal families! You are more important than any of these peasants! The others can certainly wait for you; don't spare a single thought for them.
Pelleas: L-let go of me! Leave me alone!
Almedha: Haah!

Pelleas: Mother!
Almedha: Pelleas...
Pelleas: I'm sorry, Mother. I...

Almedha: Pelleas, wait! Pelleas!

Janaff: We've spotted the enemy! They're over there, to the southwest!
Tibarn: How did they get so close without being noticed? Did we have men out of position?
Ulki: No, I just checked in. Enemy forces just suddenly appeared, with no sign or warning at all.
Tibarn: Guess that's one good thing about fighting a goddess... Things are sure to be exciting. Everyone, get in position!

Reyson: ...An entire legion that can appear from nowhere? Who are these Disciples?
Tibarn: To be honest, I don't care who they are. I just want to knock a little disorder back into the world.

@Battle
Valtome: My humblest apologies. I hope we didn't sneak up on you. I'm sure that cheeky little queenlet is still amongst you? I hope so. I'm going to make her pay for defying me! Uwee hee hee!


Pelleas: I'm sorry to be late! What unit would you like me to support?
Tibarn: Oh, King Pelleas. ?You shouldn't...endanger yourself. Besides, I don't think we'll have too much trouble with these guys.
Pelleas: I appreciate your concern, but as the king of Daein, I fight for the people of all free countries. It is my duty.
Tibarn: Wait, where is your mother?
Pelleas: W-well...
Tibarn: Listen, I don't know what she's been telling you, but don't throw your life away. I appreciate that you want to help, but this battle is beyond you. Try to stay out of the way.
Pelleas: ...Y-yes, sir.

@Boss
Valtome: Uwee hee hee! Uwee hee hee! I have always known that only I, Valtome, possessed the grace and beauty to be chosen by the goddess! How wonderful to finally be recognized for my excellence! If only that insufferable Zelgius could see me now! I am divinity! Uwee hee hee!

%Pelleas,Valtome
Valtome: You are no soldier! Who are you, boy?
Pelleas: I... I am Pelleas, king of Daein.
Valtome: Oh, how precious! I was hoping that I'd meet the simpering moron who signed the blood pact with Lekain... Uwee hee hee!
Pelleas: Y-you will regret this!

%Elincia,Valtome
Valtome: Ah, there you are, Queen of Hayseeds! I look forward to scraping you off my immaculate nails! Uwee hee hee hee!
Elincia: Lord Valtome, I desire no battle with you. Withdraw your troops immediately. If you do so, no more lives will be lost.
Valtome: Uwee hee...uwee hee hee... Are you touched as well as homely? I offer YOU the chance to surrender! But you, Elincia, I will only forgive if you beg. And crawl. And lick the sole of my left boot.
Elincia: I'm sorry that you feel that way. If that's how it has to be, may the goddess have mercy on you, Valtome.

%Tibarn,Valtome
Valtome: Zelgius... Where is Zelgius?! Do you think you can hide him? That man...must be...uwee hee hee...punished!
Tibarn: Sorry to disappoint you, but Zelgius is my prey. There's no chance I'm passing him on to the likes of you.

%Reyson,Valtome
Valtome: Oh, how quaint...a bird. Do you seek to defeat me? Haven’t you herons learned it’s not safe to play with senators? Uwee hee hee! Beg for my mercy!
Reyson: Mercy will be done when you and your fellows are gone from this world.

%Ranulf,Valtome
Valtome: The so-called queen... Where is that brazen little hussy? Bring her before me! Now! Right away! Immediately!
Ranulf: Are you the best that Ashera could do? This really is the end of the world.

%Pelleas,Valtome
Valtome: You are no soldier! Who are you, boy?
Pelleas: I... I am Pelleas, king of Daein.
Valtome: Oh, how precious! I was hoping that I’d meet the simpering moron who signed the blood pact with Lekain... How funny! Uwee hee hee!
Pelleas: Y-you will regret this!

%Kieran,Valtome
Valtome: Ah, a Crimean soldier, yes? Ugh! That queen of yours has no style! What ridiculous armor! You go out in that?
Kieran: I will brook no insult to my queen or my armor! You face Kieran, second commander of the Royal Knights...and your doom!

@End
Tibarn: Whew, that's just what I needed! Queen Elincia, are you hurt?

Tibarn: Do you all feel as...alive as I do? This is proof that we need a little chaos. Everyone understand that now?
Elincia: Yes, but it doesn't make me fond of war. I know we can't stop, but...
Tibarn: I understand, Elincia. Your path is important, too. Leave the rough stuff to us. 
Elincia: King Tibarn... Thank you.

Tibarn: That was some good work you did back there.
Pelleas: Haaaa haaa haaa...
Tibarn: ...OK, just relax. Get it together...
Pelleas: Haaa...haa...
Tibarn: Hmm. I'll go get the others. You just sit down and catch your breath.
Pelleas: Haa huff... Ahem. 
Tibarn: Considering he's the only son of Ashnard the Mad King, scourge of Crimea and butcher of innocents, he is quite the mama's boy.

Almedha: ... Hm?  Pelleas?!
Elincia: Queen Almedha... You shouldn't be out here all by yourself. It's dangerous.
Almedha: ...Queen Elincia.
Elincia: I was worried when I didn't see you at supper, so I came looking for you.
Almedha: Hmph. I didn't think anyone in this merry band cared about me. After all, my own son is trying to avoid me.
Elincia: Don't say that. A lot of things have just happened... I'm sure Pelleas is just confused. He'll come around.
Almedha: I hope you're right. Lady Elincia, can I ask you a question? What of your mother? Was she also turned to stone?
Elincia: No... My mother died three years ago. Both my mother and my father were killed by King Ashnard...
Almedha: By Ashnard? I-I'm sorry.
Elincia: Lady Almedha, you were King Ashnard's wife, correct?
Almedha: There was never a formal wedding ceremony, so I suppose some would call me a mistress... But I was the only one he could ever call his wife. And I'm the only one who can be called the mother of his child...
Elincia: King Pelleas.
Almedha: Yes, Pelleas. We were separated so long... Finally having him back is the greatest gift imaginable.
Elincia: ...Forgive me for asking, but why did King Ashnard suddenly decide to invade Crimea? I want to know why my parents died.
Almedha: Truthfully, I don't know.
Elincia: You were closer to him than anyone. Didn't he say anything? Did he never explain his reasons?
Almedha: The last time I saw Ashnard was long ago, more than twenty years. I'm afraid I don't know many state secrets from after that point.
Elincia: But, why...
Almedha: You look so surprised. We had a falling out and ended up living separately... It happens rather a lot, I'm afraid.
Elincia: No, it's just that... Well, you said that King Ashnard had no other wives or children... I just assumed that you had always been by his side.
Almedha: Ha ha... There was always gossip, of course, and I hated it. But I know with absolute certainty... Ashnard had relations with no other woman. And so I said as much.
Elincia: So he did love you, in his own way?
Almedha: Love? Love?! Ha ha... Seriously... Ha ha ha...ha ha haa!
Elincia: Wh-what's so funny?
Almedha: There was no love between Ashnard and me. There was a strong mutual attraction between us, eventually resulting in a child... But all I ever was to him was a source of power. Once I became pregnant, I was useless to him. Bereft of my strength, he found my presence nothing more than an irritating distraction. After Pelleas was born, Ashnard became obsessed with the boy... But, once he realized Pelleas had no special powers... Ashnard rejected him, and used him as bait in a cruel trap for my brother...
Elincia: Lady Almedha?
Almedha: I... It's just that I...
Elincia: I'm sorry, it was not my place to ask.
Almedha: Where is he? Where is my Pelleas? He's the only thing that matters... I can't lose him...ever! Please, I beg of you. Bring me my Pelleas! Tell him his mother needs him... Hurry... Bring me my Pelleas!
Elincia: Of course. I-I'll bring him as soon as I can. 
Almedha: Oh, Rajaion... I'm so sorry. Please forgive me...

@Narration
The journey to the Tower of Guidance becomes more difficult, as Ashera's Disciples of Order hound the travelers' every step. Micaiah's ability to sense danger proves invaluable, as it gives her allies advance warning of attacks by the Disciples. Thus prepared for each battle, the group keeps casualties to a minimum.
As they travel south through Begnion, Micaiah and her company clash repeatedly with the Disciples of Order. Eventually, they pass through the central mountains and into the lonely wastelands of the vast Grann Desert. They are sustained only by their faith that they will reunite with their companions at the Tower of Guidance.

@Conversation 
Tibarn: Reyson! Where are you!?
Reyson: Over here, Tibarn.
Tibarn: What are you doing so early in the morning?
Reyson: I’m hunting for treasure!
Tibarn: Could you repeat that?
Reyson: I believe it was the goddess Yune. She sent me a message in my sleep. I saw patches of ground that glowed. I went to one of those spots and found this.
Tibarn: A satori sign... Don’t see these very often. It’s a good find. But blast it, Reyson, why didn’t you wake me up?
Reyson: I didn’t know what I would find. Besides, you looked so comfortable.
Tibarn: Hm. I didn’t even notice you’d snuck out. I can’t believe a heron snuck by me...
Reyson: Even heroes need their sleep to keep fighting, Tibarn. Where’s the harm in sleeping? I know that you haven’t had a good night’s rest since the incident in Phoenicis.
Tibarn: Yeah. But you know, there must be something in the air... Despite all that’s happened I feel fantastic. It’s a perfect day for hunting treasure...and enemies.
Reyson: Excellent.

Jorge: Good morning, Queen Elincia.
Elincia: Oh. Good morning, Jorge. It looks to be a pleasant day, doesn’t it?
Jorge: Indeed. And a splendid morning is the best time to present a queen with a fine gift.
Elincia: Oh, Jorge... Your kind thoughts are enough. You and Daniel have worked so hard to supply our army. If you have something for me, please let me pay you for it.
Daniel: Even under these circumstances, Queen Elincia, you always try to be good to us. That’s why we wanted to give you a gift. It’s a token of our appreciation.
Elincia: Daniel...
Daniel: We’ll take payment for everything else. But please, take this one item without any protests. It’s our pleasure.
Jorge: Please, Queen Elincia! We insist.
Elincia: Very well. I suppose it would be quite rude of me not to accept it.
Jorge: Wonderful!
Daniel: Here it is. Please use it with our compliments.
Elincia: Oh... This is a fire tome.
Daniel: Yes. It’s a very valuable one.
Elincia: So I can see. I am not a mage, but I feel great power from this tome.
Jorge: Daniel and I happened to be in that building when there was the big flash of light. That’s how we escaped being turned to stone. But you avoided it because you were one of the chosen.
Daniel: But we still want to help you. We can collect weapons to help you in battle!
Jorge: Please, save the people who were turned to stone.
Daniel: Please give us the world we used to have.
Elincia: I promise you I will do my utmost. I’ll work toward it with everything I have. Together, we can accomplish anything.
/***EOF***/
@Intro
Yune: How dull. I don't sense any enemies nearby. I know! Would you all like me to tell you a story as we climb?
Ike: What kind of story?
Yune: One from long ago, long before the grandparents of anyone here were born.

Yune: In the very beginning of this world...there was only water, until one day a girl appeared. The girl was very clever, and she forged the first land...then she made trees and flowers, and then she created beings.
Tibarn: The story of the grand creation? Heard it. Wake me when it's over.
Ike: The girl was you, right, Yune? Or are you talking about Ashera?
Yune: Both, really...and neither, actually. At first, the girl was excited by her new world, and she thought of little else. Then she started feeling lonely. Everyone, every being she'd created, was different from her. Not a single person that could truly understand her. All alone, she grew sadder and sadder, crying for thousands of years. Then some creatures began to grow and change, becoming more clever and sophisticated. They tried to comfort the girl and eventually grew closer to her... That was the birth of the Zunanma. They were your ancestors...beorc, laguz, everyone.
Sanaki: In Begnion, we are taught that the Zunanma were human—Uhm, I mean...beorc ancestors... ...It makes me wonder what else in my country has been warped beyond recognition.
Yune: It's possible that the truth was simply misunderstood. Like the way everyone calls me a dark god...
Yune: But let me continue... The Zunanma worshipped the girl as their own goddess. They said her hair was as striking a color as dawn's first light, so they gave her a name... The Goddess of Dawn. She was a much-loved goddess.
Ike: The Goddess of Dawn...
Yune: The Zunanma continued to evolve and change, giving rise to a variety of races and tribes across the land. Naturally, each of the races thought their own was superior to the others, and conflict arose between them.

Yune: The goddess tried to make peace among her people, but nothing could stop the warring Zunanma. Trying to separate the factions, the goddess gave them different names, laguz and beorc... But this only intensified their conflict.
Yune: And then...the great flood occurred.

Yune: The goddess was only trying to bring an end to the fighting. But her power was so great that all the continents were drowned in the flood, all except Tellius.
Ike: Are you sure about this story? It's very different from the histories that we've each been taught.
Elincia: Among beorc nations, we only know a vague fairy tale about the dark god stirring up a great disaster.


Kurthnaga: Neither the laguz nor the beorc have an accurate description by the sound of it. I wonder where the story got twisted.
Yune: There is another standing in our way... I have a feeling he might be able to tell us.

Kurthnaga: ...Fa--...Father?
Ike: Huh?
Kurthnaga: My father... Just beyond these doors, my father is waiting.

Ike: Dheginsea, king of Goldoa... He's supposed to be one of the three who defeated the dark god...Yune.
Yune: He has been blessed by Ashera. Not only that, but it's a powerful, resilient blessing from long ago. He may be nearly impossible to defeat. ...Let's get everyone together. There's no better time than now.


Yune: I was hoping to avoid this until we reached Ashera... Actually, I hoped not to have to do it at all... But she's left me with no choice. I will give you the blessings of Yune, goddess of chaos and freedom. In their natural state, the attacks of mortal creatures have no effect on divine beings.

Yune: When Ashera set out to defeat me, she gathered her strongest warriors and bestowed on them some of her power. This is called the Goddess's Blessing... She empowered the dual swords of the beorc swordswoman, Altina. The laguz warrior, Soan, and Dheginsea, the leader of the dragon tribe, were also blessed.
Yune: I failed then... But this time will be different. I'll use Ashera's own tricks, and I won't be defeated. Everyone... Take some time now to ready yourselves. Beorc, be sure to equip your best weapons. I'll begin when everyone's ready.

Yune: I think we're all ready. I'll need the laguz to transform.

Yune: Let's begin.

Yune: OK, I'm all done now. Whew... I... That was really hard... I think I... I think I need to rest.
Sothe: Micaiah? Are you feeling all right? You don't look so good.
Micaiah: ...I'm fine. Thank you, Sothe.
Ike: What happened to Yune?
Micaiah: She's sleeping. She wants us to take it from here.
Ike: All right... If we're all set, let's move out.

Kurthnaga: Father!

^start
Dheginsea: Caineghis, the great lion king... How many times have I said it now? How many times have I warned against starting another war?
Caineghis: I know, old friend. I know...

Dheginsea: Tibarn, the great hawk king... How many times have I said it now? How many times have I warned against starting another war?
Tibarn: Don’t you dare preach to me, you dried-up old fool.

Dheginsea: Naesala, the great raven king... How many times have I said it now? How many times have I warned against starting another war?
Naesala: And since when have I ever listened to the likes of you?
^end

Dheginsea: We have betrayed our vow to our goddess. We should have learned, but the fighting never stopped. Now we must pay for our crimes. We must take responsibility, and accept Ashera's judgment.

Micaiah: No! You don't understand! It wasn't the war that awoke the goddess! It was my song... The galdr of release freed the goddess!
Dheginsea: ...You can't expect me to believe that. We will wait here patiently for the punishment we deserve. If you are unwilling to await judgment...

Dheginsea: You will stand against... The greatest of all dragons!

Kurthnaga: Father, no! Why must we fight? There must be a way to talk this through.
Ike: It's no use, Kurth. We have no choice but to fight. We must reach the goddess, and not even the king of dragons can stand in our way.

@Battle

Dheginsea: Feel the power of Ashera's faithful!

Dheginsea: You have followed Yune's path here? That puts us irrevocably at odds. I'm sorry it had to be this way.

Dheginsea: You've declared war on a goddess... A foolish action with terrible consequences!

@Battle-Talk 
%Ena,Gareth
Ena: Please let me pass, Gareth.
Gareth: I will not move. Such was the king's command.
Ena: Is there nothing I can do?
Gareth: No. I'm sorry to be so hardhead, Ena. But I must serve my king.
Ena: Maybe we're the hardheaded ones... Opposing our king and our goddess. But we've chosen our path...
Gareth: Lady Ena. Promise me you'll look after him. Keep the prince safe.
Ena: Of course. I promise... I will protect him at any cost!

%Kurthnaga,Gareth
Gareth: I was afraid it would come to this, squared off with the very prince I'm supposed to protect. What to do?
Kurthnaga: Gareth, let me pass! I need to reach my father!
Gareth: Without the king's word, I can't let that happen.
Kurthnaga: Do you mean to fight me?
Gareth: Of course not! You know I couldn't do that. All I will do is stand here, plant my feet, and wait.
Kurthnaga: Gareth!
Gareth: Prince Kurthnaga, it has been a privilege to serve you. I wish you all the best.

@Recruit-Battle
Gareth: My prince... I was supposed to protect you, but... I failed.
Kurthnaga: No, Gareth! It was I that turned my back on Goldoa. Gareth... I'm sorry.

Nasir: I have lived long enough... Ena, I wish you...the best...
Ena: Nasir... Nasir! Grandfather...

@Battle-Talk 
%Ena,Nasir
Ena: I'm sorry to see that you stand with the king, Grandfather.
Nasir: I turned on him once, and I will never do it again. Will you follow your grandfather's example?
Ena: You know that I won't. I can't. I'm sorry...
Nasir: It's all right, my dear. You can side with the prince. Stand by your convictions.

%Kurthnaga,Nasir 
Kurthnaga: Nasir! You must talk to my father! Convince him to stand down!
Nasir: ...We have committed two crimes. We ignored the will of our king, and in so doing let war rise once more. We must atone for our sins.
Kurthnaga: ...I am willing to accept my own punishment. But is it right that the innocent--women and children who have never lifted a weapon--are also turned to stone?
Nasir: You can’t change my mind. I have made a solemn vow that I will never again betray my king.

@Battle-Talk 
%Reyson,Dheginsea
Reyson: King Dheginsea, you are more powerful than any being alive... Use that power to help us save the people.
Dheginsea: You are not the first to make such a request. But my answer is the same now as it was before. I will not change my mind. I have no choice but to follow the will of our goddess.

%Rafiel,Dheginsea
Rafiel: King Dheginsea, I don’t understand... Why? Why must we fight? I just can’t... I... I... I can’t take it. Fighting only causes more pain and suffering. Why do this?
Dheginsea: ...You remind me of a friend from long ago. He was the kindest soul I’ve known, but he was so terribly weak. You’ve moved me more than you’ll ever know... But I will not budge. I await my judgment.

%Leanne,Dheginsea
Dheginsea: Hello, Princess Leanne. You can’t fight me... I advise you to stand down.
Leanne: (Sadness... Your heart is filled with such sadness. What’s wrong? Can’t we talk about it?)
Dheginsea: I have nothing more to say to you. This is the way it has to be. My feelings do not matter.

@Boss
Dheginsea: Fools! By denying your judgment, you merely rush to your death.

Dheginsea: No... Unh... Has my body grown old? Or is it...my heart...

%Ena,Dheginsea
Ena: Your Majesty...
Dheginsea: Come now, Ena. Fight.
Ena: I'm sorry, I can't. I may have turned my back on my king and left my own country, but I still belong to the dragon tribe. I wouldn't dare attack my own king. I couldn't.
Dheginsea: Then as your king, I order you. I order you to fight for Kurthnaga's life.
Ena: My king!
Dheginsea: You and he need each other. You are different from other dragons.
Ena: ...Very well, Your Majesty.

%Kurthnaga,Dheginsea
Kurthnaga: Father! Please think about what you're doing.
Dheginsea: The time for words has passed. The only option remaining is to stop you with brute force.
Kurthnaga: Why? Father, why?
Dheginsea: That is enough! No more sniveling! You, Kurthnaga, were to rule the dragon tribe in years to come. Show me that you would have been capable!
Kurthnaga: But-- Yes, sir... I'll show you.

%Sanaki,Dheginsea
Dheginsea: In my eyes, the mightiest of you looks no different than an infant. Can you hope to stand a chance?
Sanaki: Of...of course. I am Sanaki, 37th empress of Begnion. It is my duty to save my people. Even the world's mightiest dragon will not dissuade me from that calling.
Dheginsea: All right, then, child. Fulfill your duty.

%Elincia,Dheginsea
Dheginsea: You, too, deign to oppose the goddess Ashera?
Elincia: I will do whatever is required to rescue those who were petrified. I beg of you, Dragon King, please reconsider what Prince Kurthnaga said to you.
Dheginsea: It is too late. People, in our weakness, betray the gods, and are meant to be punished for it.
Elincia: I cannot believe that. People are capable of both terrible and wonderful things. To describe them so simply and cynically does them a disservice.
Dheginsea: If I am defeated today, that may convince me that I am wrong. Come... I'm waiting.

%Tibarn,Dheginsea
Tibarn: I never would have believed that one day I'd be facing off against you. Life sure is funny, sometimes.
Dheginsea: Even you, Tibarn? Don't make me kill you. You haven't got a chance.
Tibarn: Don't be so sure about that. You just might be surprised. Besides, you've got a lot to answer for, Dheginsea. You'll finally pay the price for all those years of inaction and indifference as your kin were butchered and enslaved.
Dheginsea: You shortsighted fool, you still don't understand... All right, I'm waiting. Show me what you've got.

%Sothe,Dheginsea
Dheginsea: Have at you, follower of Yune.
Sothe: I won't live as long as you have, and I'll never be as powerful. Things like saving the world and fighting goddesses are just beyond me. They're out of my reach. That's why I've always chosen to fight for the smaller things in life and the people close to me. If that means I have to fight you to protect them, then so be it.

%Micaiah,Dheginsea
Dheginsea: You...you're one of the parentless...
Micaiah: You know me?
Dheginsea: Yes. I knew the first of your kind. I have been alive for a very long time... Perhaps too long. But soon it will all be over.

%Ike,Dheginsea
Ike: Dheginsea, Dragon King. I can see you have no intention of letting us pass.
Dheginsea: I follow my goddess's decrees. My will is unwavering.
Ike: I have no choice, then. Be on your guard.
Dheginsea: Very well, beorc general. Our blessings may be equal and opposite, but your strength is a mere fraction of mine. Show me your best!

%Naesala,Dheginsea 
Dheginsea: Naesala, you dare challenge me?
Naesala: Heh. It’s funny you should ask that... I’m not deluded enough to think that I can beat you. The goddess herself would hesitate to fight you. But my people are frozen solid, and I have to delude myself enough to think that I can help save them.
Dheginsea: You are a true king, Naesala. I am ready when you are.
Naesala: I’ll be thrilled if I land even a single blow. I’m much better at fleeing than fighting.

%Nailah,Dheginsea 
Dheginsea: You... are of the wolf people?
Nailah: Yes. After the floods, we built our country to the east of the great desert.
Dheginsea: ...So we weren’t the only ones to survive...
Nailah: Until we met Rafiel, we too thought ours were the only people left.
Dheginsea: In your country, are there only people of the wolf tribe?
Nailah: No, beorc live there, as well. There are also a number of what you call the "parentless." Children born of both laguz and beorc parents are still relatively few.. but they live normally among us.
Dheginsea: Is that so?
Nailah: That’s probably enough chatting. Do you still intend to block our path?
Dheginsea: ...I will not deny my goddess.
Nailah: And I won’t deny my conscience. I will revive those turned to stone, and you cannot stop me.

@End
Dheginsea: ...Well done. You...have beaten me.

Kurthnaga: Father!
Dheginsea: Don't lose your head now, boy. This wound... This is nothing. Your power... How could you defeat me? I was blessed by Ashera herself...
???: I gave them my blessings.

Dheginsea: Yune?! Is that you?
Yune: That war long ago... I'm so sorry. You were right to fight against me. I was young and immature. The great flood was a result of my unchecked emotions.
Dheginsea: You don't have to apologize, Yune. I always knew that you weren't actually evil... You were just too powerful.
Yune: So why did you choose Ashera again? I had hoped that this time you would join me to help protect the people.
Dheginsea: I'm sorry, Yune. But I've done worse to you...
Dheginsea: Long ago, we made a vow before the goddess Ashera herself... We vowed that we, the laguz and beorc, would never commit the same genocidal sins. We didn't keep our promise... And for that reason I was committed to accepting my just punishment.
Yune: Silly, stubborn, old scalebag... You just don't know when to quit... You need to lighten up a bit.
Dheginsea: To convince the laguz kings to follow my example, I rewrote history, hid my tracks, and declared you a dark god. All I ever wanted was to avoid conflict... Please, forgive me.
Yune: Don't worry about it, Dheginsea. I caused enough trouble for you, so I'll forgive you just this once.
Dheginsea: I'm pleased to hear that.

Dheginsea: Gareth! Gather our survivors. Kurthnaga is their commander from now on.
Gareth: Understood, sir!
Dheginsea: Nasir... You followed your sovereign very far for having once left your country in disgust. ...I give you my sincerest thanks.
Nasir: No, my lord... Unaware of my own king's true heart, I did what I thought had to be done... I apologize.
Dheginsea: Ena... I would like to tell you only that I wish you the greatest happiness in life.
Ena: Thank... Thank you, sire.

Dheginsea: Now then, Kurthnaga... Get these men moving. I will remain here, for I cannot move.
Kurthnaga: Yes, Father. We will stop Ashera. Wait here for our return. We will be back.
Dheginsea: ...Yes, my son. I'll be waiting.

@Flashback
Male Voice 1: We must save them. Even now, as we speak, countless laguz slaves endure Begnion chains. They suffer terribly.
Male Voice 2: We have done all that we will do.

Male Voice 1: Admonitions and censures change nothing! Now is the time for the dragon tribes to use their strength to save the oppressed laguz!
Male Voice 2: Goldoa does not interfere with the outside world. As king of dragons, I will not allow my people to fan the flames of war. Conflict on the scale you describe will wake the goddess and call down her judgment upon us all. This is the path to destruction. A thousand years... That is how long we swore to the goddess that there would be no war. Have you forgotten our covenant?
Male Voice 1: Of course not. Yet...there are laguz who are treated as less than livestock. I cannot believe that this is what the goddess wants.
Male Voice 2: Goldoa will not move. This decree stands from the time our nations were formed. The goddess has not yet slept one hundred and fifty years. Would you see the laguz and beorc destroyed? Would you see all of Tellius awash in blood? No, unless destruction comes to seek us at our door, Goldoa will not move, for the sake of future generations.
Male Voice 1: Tell me, do you care nothing for the laguz who suffer in the current generation? Do you think it would comfort them to know that you condone their misery?
Male Voice 2: All things require sacrifice.
Male Voice 1: ...
Male Voice 2: Where are you going?

Male Voice 1: To Begnion. I will find a solution without you.
Male Voice 2: You, who have lost your birthright? All you will accomplish is your own destruction. Hold...hold, I say!

@End
Dheginsea: My queen... Rajaion... I will soon join you.

Dheginsea: My lovely Almedha... Cherish...life...

Yune: It's happening again... Whose memory is that?! Something feels so...familiar about it. Is that... Is that your memory?
Kurthnaga: Father! ......
Ena: Kurth... He's gone...
Kurthnaga: I know. This is simply another reason to move on... Entrusted by my father to care for our people, I will stand before Ashera. ...As the king of the dragon tribe!

@Conversation 
Sothe: Are you all right, Micaiah?
Micaiah: Yes, I’m fine. How about you, Sothe? Are you all right? You’re not hurt?
Sothe: I’m not a child, Micaiah! When are you going to start treating me like an adult?
Micaiah: Show me your hand.
Sothe: What?
Micaiah: Look at your hands. They’re so big... They were so small when we met.
Sothe: Micaiah...
Ike: Ahh... Sorry. Am I interrupting something?
Sothe: C-Commander!
Micaiah: It’s all right, Ike. How can we help you?
Ike: I was scrounging around in my stuff and found some extra medicine. I figured I’d ask around and see if anyone needed it.
Sothe: ...I need to go get ready.
Ike: Hey, there’s no rush. We still have... He didn’t catch a word of that, did he?
Micaiah: I’m sorry about that.
Ike: How long have you been with him?
Micaiah: ...A long time. I met him when I was hiding out in the back alleys of Nevassa, over ten years ago. He was so skinny, but his gaze was so piercing... I wondered how such a young boy could look like that. One day, I noticed he was standing close to me, just watching. He continued like that for a few days. One day, I held out my hand. He was suspicious of me, but came over anyway. He looked like a scared animal. Then his little hand slipped into mine. It was shaking. His fingers were so thin and frail. I couldn’t let go after that.
Micaiah: After that, we traveled together all over the continent. No matter where we went, we were always together.
Ike: The first time I met him, he’d hidden on a ship we were taking. He mentioned he was looking for someone who was like family to him. It was you he was searching for, wasn’t it?
Micaiah: I...I tried to leave him behind. When we went to Crimea, I split off from him and took a ship to Begnion. But when I reached Begnion, war had broken out between Crimea and Daein. I knew I had to return to Daein to look for him. I couldn’t find him, so I went to Crimea. But I still couldn’t find him... We found each other again after the war, in Daein. In the back alleys of Nevassa, where we first met.
Ike: You took routes opposite to each other.
Micaiah: When I told him why I’d disappeared, he got so angry... I’d never seen him get so emotional before.
Ike: I can’t say that I blame him. I’d be pretty furious if I heard someone that I loved was wandering around two countries at war. Besides, I’m sure he’d hidden his feelings about being abandoned until he saw you again.
Micaiah: I thought I was reaching the limit of how long I could stay with him. He grew each and every day, but I remained the same... I didn’t want him to be harmed by the curse I lived with. Can you imagine how hard that would have been on him?
Ike: You mean the blood of the laguz?
Micaiah: So you knew. Did you find out from the boy who’s always beside you?
Ike: Soren. Yeah. I guess you both know how to recognize people with a similar nature.
Micaiah: Yes. He and I are both Branded.
Ike: ...Don’t use that word. You and Soren are both people. Just like me and everyone else.
Micaiah: People. You’re just like Yune. You call both laguz and beorcs people.
Ike: Why should I care about the color of your hair, eyes, and skin? Or your ears, wings, or tail? No matter how long you live or what powers you possess, we’re the same. At the end of the day, we’re all people.
Micaiah: ... Sothe talks that way, too. His time with you changed him. Thank you, Ike. I’ve made up my mind.
Ike: About what? I didn’t realize we were doing anything but talking.
Micaiah: I thought I might travel to a far-off place after all of this was over. But I won’t. I’ll go back to Daein. No matter what happens, I’ll have Sothe by my side. I have nothing to fear as long as he’s with me.
Ike: It seems the feelings between you two run both ways. But that’s probably the wisest choice for Daein, and Sothe too. Anyway...
Micaiah: Oh, um... May I have some medicine?
Ike: Oh! Yeah, I almost forgot. Survive, Micaiah. We need you, and the goddess you host, to save the people of Tellius.
Micaiah: Yes. I know.

Sanaki: Zelgius is the Black Knight? I don’t know what to say... It’s unbelievable!
Ike: What was he like in Begnion?
Sanaki: He was the right-hand man of my most trusted aide, Duke Sephiran of Persis. He was a hero, a perfect general, and the best swordsman in all of Tellius. He was never anything but loyal. But he was serving another country!
Ike: Hmm. It makes me wonder how Sephiran is doing.
Sanaki: I doubt he’s been turned to stone. Even though he was captured by Lekain and forcibly removed from his post, he’ll have found a way to persevere. Sigrun always said there’s no other master of the arcane arts who can compare with the duke of Persis.
Ike: Makes you wonder, doesn’t it?
Sanaki: Ike... Don’t tell me you suspect Sephiran!
Ike: Well, look at the facts...
Sanaki: Do not trouble your mind with that thought! He would never betray me.
Ike: It’s nice to think so. But if he’s not petrified, he’d have received a message from Yune. So where is he?
Sanaki: The goddess isn’t perfect. She said so herself! Maybe the message didn’t reach everyone.
Ike: ...You have to admit that’s a weak excuse. Let’s leave it at that, for now. We need to focus on moving forward.
Sanaki: Please, let’s! Oh, I almost forgot! I have something for you.
Ike: What is it?
Sanaki: Um... Uh... Well, you’re my trusted aide, just like Sephiran. You have to live! So protect yourself with this.
Ike: A mercenary with a contract to act as aide to the empress of Begnion. Who’d have thought? But thank you, Sanaki.
Sanaki: You’re welcome, Ike. And thank you.

^start
Rafiel: Ike, take a look at this.
Ike: Hey now... Where’d you stumble across it?
Rafiel: Inside the tower. I thought of using it myself, but...
Ike: Yeah, I don’t think that it’s right for you.
Rafiel: ...Indeed. That’s why I brought it here for you to use.
Ike: Thanks. It’s a very rare item. I’m in your debt.
Rafiel: It’s the least I could do.

Reyson: Ike, take a look at this.
Ike: Hey now... Where’d you stumble across it?
Reyson: Lying around inside the tower. It seemed like the sort of thing I should bring to your attention.
Ike: That’s very nice of you, but you didn’t have to. Do whatever you want with it.
Reyson: Really? Do you think I’d be able to use it?
Ike: Well, don’t get hasty. I don’t think it’s right for you.
Reyson: ...I know. I’m just kidding, Ike.
Ike: Thanks. It’s a very rare item. I’ll cherish it.
Reyson: Please do.

Leanne: (Micaiah, have you ever seen one of these?)
Micaiah: Yes, Leanne, I have. That’s a very powerful artifact. Actually, it would be of great help to us, with what’s been happening.
Leanne: (I found it inside the tower. Do you think I can use it?)
Micaiah: Um... I don’t think so, Leanne. But you can try if you like...
Leanne: (...I’m only kidding. Here, you can have it.)
Micaiah: Oh, for me? Thank you very much. It’s a very precious item. I’ll make good use of it.
Leanne: (Please do!)
^end
/***EOF***/
@Intro
Begnion: Hey, have you heard? The sub-humans are retreating!
Begnion: General Zelgius is amazing! As long as we have him, Begnion has nothing to fear.
Levail: Ahem! Gentlemen. This is no time for idle chatter. However...if you wish to praise General Zelgius, I suppose that is all right. He is the glory of our forces, after all.
Begnion: It's true! As long as he leads us, we won't be afraid of any dirty sub-humans!

Senator: Gah! That insufferable fool! I cannot believe he killed one sub-human and ended the battle! Who gave him an order like that?1 I don't care for such a petty victory!
Lombroso: I understand, my lord. I was hoping that this would be the end of the sub-humans, once and for all. However, can we really punish him for winning the battle?
Senator: No, you fool! That's what makes it even more bothersome! Zelgius and the apostle are both making mockeries of the senate! They're more of a threat to Begnion than those filthy sub-humans are!
Lombroso: My lord, please let me fix this painful situation. I shall take to the battlefield and earn us the result Begnion desires.
Senator: That does sound lovely, I admit. But hasn't General Zelgius ordered all forces to cease fire for three days?
Lombroso: Who is in charge here, my lord? Must you follow Zelgius's orders?
Senator: Hah, I see your point. I shall leave everything to you, then. Make Begnion proud, Lord Lombroso.



Ike: Ranulf has started his retreat. Tibarn and his men are gathering information on Zelgius's forces. Before he left, Tibarn asked me to take you to Gallia, where you'll be safe. Are you ready to go?
Reyson: No. I won't leave, Ike. I won't leave this place.
Ike: Reyson, please...
Reyson: I've lived with the hawk tribe for twenty years. They are my family. I'll... I'll stay here and fight.
Ike: ...Well, since I can see I won't be changing your mind... You can join up with us. The Greil Mercenaries can stay here as long as we want. After all, we're not on anyone's payroll right now. We're free agents.
Reyson: Ike... Thank you.

Titania: Ike, come out here! Hurry! It's the Begnion army!
Ike: What?!


Ike: What are they doing here?1 It hasn't been three days yet!
Soren: It seems they couldn't care less. They are demanding the castle back. If we don't comply, they'll attack.
Reyson: They were probably waiting for both the Gallians and the hawk tribe to leave the castle.
Ike: Oh, they think they can take us now that we're all alone, huh? They obviously don't know who they're up against. Let's make them remember the name of the Greil Mercenaries! Everyone, get in position! Let's take them out!

@Battle
Lombroso: Fools! Can't you see that you're outnumbered?! You have sided with the laguz and betrayed the empire! The senate will be happy to see the likes of you dead and buried!

@Boss
Lombroso: The outcome of a battle depends solely on the number of troops in the field! Tactics and skill are nothing in the face of sheer numbers! Wait, are you laughing at me? Gah! Die, you insolent cur!

%Ike,Lombroso
Lombroso: Hmph, pathetic. Your tiny band of outlaws doesn't stand a chance before our might. We have more troops on the way. The onslaught will not stop until every last one of you lies dead!
Ike: Are you really the best Begnion could send?
Lombroso: What?! How dare you take that tone with me!
Ike: Or did they send you at all? Does General Zelgius know about this little excursion?
Lombroso: I don't take orders from that sanctimonious has-been. Enough questions. Prepare to die!

Lombroso: Im-impossible! But now? We outnumbered them...

@Battle
Begnion: General Lombroso has fallen! R-retreat! Fall back to base camp!

@End
Ike: They're retreating. That was close.

Janaff: Hey, hold on a minute! What's going on here? We hurry back, and you don't save us anyone to fight?!
Ike: Sorry about that. You're back sooner than I expected. How far out did you scout?
Tibarn: We went to the enemy's headquarters, Castle Gaddos. As promised, the Begnion forces were waiting quietly in their castle. Apparently, some of their soldiers disobeyed orders, but we can trust Zelgius to keep the rest in line. I have other news, however. I ran into someone quite unexpected on the outskirts of enemy territory.
Ike: Who?
Tibarn: The commander of the Holy Guards.
Ike: General Sigrun?
Tibarn: Yeah. She was by herself. She seemed hesitant to get near Castle Gaddos. It was odd. I figured since she's a friend and loyal to the apostle, why not try to get some information from her? She wouldn't budge. Tough girl, that one. She wasn't at all surprised to see me. Then she said, in such a sad voice, "Please escape at once."
Ike: I wonder what she meant by that? It can't be a good sign. This whole mess is getting worse by the minute.


Begnion: General Zelgius. General Sigrun of the Holy Guards is here to see you. Should I let her through?
Zelgius: General Sigrun? Let her through. At once!

Zelgius: Is something the matter, General? You do not look well. Should I send for something? Water, perhaps?
Sigrun: General Zelgius, I... I carry an order from the senate. The cease-fire has been repealed. You are ordered to destroy the Laguz Alliance, and their allies as well.
Zelgius: What?! The enemy has already lost the will to fight! The apostle and Lord Sephiran would never agree to such a terrible plan!
Sigrun: ...
Zelgius: General Sigrun?
Sigrun: Lord Sephiran of Persis has been stripped of his titles as prime minister and head of the senate. He is currently under arrest and is charged with..."committing high treason and fomenting rebellion."
Zelgius: No! Impossible! This is madness!
Sigrun: It doesn't end there. The apostle has gone into seclusion, with illness as the stated reason.
Zelgius: Damn it! They've been captured!
Sigrun: I've ordered my subordinates to find out where the apostle is, but I have yet to hear any word. General Zelgius, I beg of you, follow the senate's orders. Our friends' lives are at risk.
Zelgius: ...Curse those senators.


Micaiah: You called for me, Your Majesty?
Pelleas: It is nice to see you, Micaiah. You remain Daein's goddess of victory. But I never see your face around here anymore. Are you busy in town?
Micaiah: Your Majesty. My room in the castle is much to lavish for my taste. I'd rather be in town helping with the reconstruction. It's good work, and it makes me happy to help our people.
Almedha: How precious. Still obsessed with garnering the adoration of peasants, are we? Aren't you past that yet, my dear?
Pelleas: Mother, please stop. Micaiah is my dear friend. She is the only person I have to turn to for a kind word now that Izuka and the Black Knight have both left Daein. They mysteriously disappeared on the day of my coronation... Do you think they'll ever return?
Almedha: I'm quire sure that they were both kidnapped by those who wish harm upon you, my beloved son! Those mongrels intend to throw the country into chaos by holding Daein's leaders hostage. But...Mother will always protect you, Pelleas. I will never leave you, not for one moment. When you seek kind words or good advice, you must come to me, and no one else.
Pelleas: I understand, Mother.
Almedha: The royal blood of Daein runs through your veins. Do not be afraid of your heritage. Reign over your people as a king. Whatever popularity that girl might garner from the peasants is of little consequence. She is your obedient subject, after all. Now, give her your orders.
Pelleas: Micaiah, Daein's Maiden of Dawn. Your king requires your service once more. Mobilize the Daein Royal Army immediately.
Micaiah: Another war? Against who?
Pelleas: We are answering the request from the Begnion Empire to wipe out the barbaric Laguz Alliance. Your targets are... Gallia's sub-humans!

@Narration
During the war between the Laguz Alliance and Begnion, the three remaining countries on Tellius--Daein, Crimea, and Goldoa--have thus far remained neutral.
In Daein, the war for independence is over, and Prince Pelleas has been crowned king. Daein is now free from Begnion's rule and is once again universally recognized as a sovereign nation. Micaiah decides to honor the promise she had made and continue on as the general of Daein's armies until the country stabilizes. Most of her companions remain by her side, helping to restore their beloved country. It is their hope that Daein will recover soon, both politically and socially. Focused as they are, they realize that they can spare no time on outside concerns, including the current war in Begnion.
However, King Pelleas has a mysterious change of heart and orders Micaiah into the war--on Begnion's side.

@Conversation 
Ike: ...
Haar: You need something from me, fearless leader?
Ike: I thought you were asleep.
Haar: Yeah, I was. Until you came within fifty paces of me. Yaaaaaawn...
Ike: Do you mind fighting alongside us?
Haar: I like it fine. As long as I can catch some sleep, I don’t care where I am. What can I do for you?
Ike: Ever since you joined us, I’ve been meaning to ask you about Jill. The last I’d heard, you were running some kind of delivery service with her. How did you end up passing through Crimea and then coming here?
Haar: I stopped to chew some fat during a delivery. That’s all.
Ike: How’s Jill these days?
Haar: Last I heard, she got mixed up with the army again, fighting for Daein’s emancipation.
Ike: I see. Don’t you think you ought to go back to Daein and give her some support?
Haar: She’s a big girl now. She doesn’t need me always lookin over her shoulder. Jill can do whatever she wants.
Ike: I don’t understand. I thought you two were... You know. Living under the same roof and all.
Haar: She’s the daughter of my dead teacher. Nothing more. Hey, if you don’t want me hanging around, feel free to just say so, all right?
Ike: No, it isn’t like that. You’re great on the battlefield. I appreciate you being here.
Haar: Good. I like your mercenary group. They’re laid back, and we have the same goal: crushing the empire.
Ike: That’s true.
Haar: Anyhow, is that all? I’m gonna nap until we deploy. Don’t wake me up until then.
Ike: All right.
Haar: Hey... Wait.
Ike: Hmm?
Haar: See that bag on my wyvern? There’s a souvenir in there for you. Feel free to take it.
Ike: A souvenir?
Haar: It’s a small thing. You don’t need to thank me. ...Yaaawn... Zzz... Zzz...
Ike: Asleep already? What a strange guy.
/***EOF***/
@Intro
Lucia: Good luck! I'll be sure to keep the palace safe. I'm sorry we couldn't allocate more troops for you. You'll be OK, though, right?
Geoffrey: Of course. We might even have too many. Actually, I'm more worried about the queen's safety. Make sure the guards stay sharp.
Lucia: Count on it. I'll maintain a tight watch on the area, and there is the backup plan, just in case.
Geoffrey: Good... Hearing you reiterate that makes me feel better, I have to admit.
Lucia: Remember, this isn't for glory. You'll be confronting our own people. Just do your job and come straight back.

Crimean Rebel: The Royal Knights have left the capital! We estimate roughly 4,000 soldiers are marching on Felirae.
Ludveck: That means about 2,000 are left in the capital... That's more than I'd expected. ...Hmm, I suppose it can't be helped. The column headed toward Felirae is primarily cavalry, is it not?
Crimean Rebel: Yes, sir. Exactly as you surmise, sir.
Ludveck: In that case, the forces at the capital will be led by the queen's confidante, Lady Lucia. This is most perfect. The soldiers remaining at Castle Felirae have been given detailed instructions...false instructions, I might add. ...The dear pawns. They are so very heroic, and so very disposable.


Kieran: General, all troops are in position! We stand ready for the assault!
Geoffrey: Thank you, Kieran. The majority of the castle vanguard appears to be common soldiers. And there's still no sign of Ludveck or any of his subordinates?
Kieran: Correct, sir. And the rest are a bunch of amateurs! You should see them flop around on their horses like rag dolls. They won't last long against the finely tuned skills of our Crimean Royal Knights.
Geoffrey: Don't get overconfident, now... Most of their forces are likely inside, waiting for us to exhaust ourselves out here.
Kieran: Yes, good point, sir!
Geoffrey: And the main gate... Have you seen it? Breaking through that is not going to be easy. We must be patient.
Kieran: Yes, sir.
Geoffrey: And remember, we're not facing enemy soldiers. Yes, they're foolish enough to be lured into joining Ludveck...but they are fellow Crimean citizens. Her Majesty would prefer to capture these rebels alive and try to talk some sense into them.
Kieran: I'm...amazed, sir. Her Majesty's kindness is touching! I'll convey that to all our men. 
Geoffrey: Listen up! We're to sweep aside the rebels and punch through the fortress gate! Her Majesty wants as many lives to be spared as possible! Set lances! All forces, charge!

@Battle
Tashoria: Not one step backward! Be strong! The duke will soon arrive with reinforcements. Stand strong a little longer... Stand firm for the revolution!

@Boss
Tashoria: W-we have to hold out! The duke is on his way! We'll be heroes! Adored, and showered with riches!

Tashoria: Duke... Duke Ludveck... Where are...our reinforcements...?

%Geoffrey,Tashoria
Geoffrey: Rebel forces! I am Geoffrey, commander of the Royal Knights of Crimea! Lay down your weapons and submit to the rule of law! Further resistance is futile! Her Majesty the queen promises leniency and means you no harm! Listen to me! You must yield!
Tashoria: Tch... What nonsense is this? Do you take us for idiots!? Our reinforcements will arrive shortly, and your fate will be sealed! Death to the tyrant and her lapdogs!
Geoffrey: Grr... The queen lives to serve you! Why can't you see that?!

@End
Crimea: Sir, the rebels have been routed! Some managed to escape, but most have surrendered their weapons. 
Kieran:  General Geoffrey! No sign of the Felirae regulars, is there?
Geoffrey: ...No. This was clearly a ruse. Duke Felirae's main force is most likely en route to the capital.
Kieran: But how?! Quickly! Rally the troops! We must return to Melior at once!
Geoffrey: Don't panic! They want us to act rashly. Settle down. ...We have contingencies in place. Light the flares to notify the capital. Move, man!

Geoffrey: Scout commander!

Geoffrey: It's very likely we'll be ambushed on the way back to the capital. Don't let anything escape your notice! We may need an alternate route back to the capital... Send some men out to investigate the old highway.

Geoffrey: Those of you who remain, disarm the prisoners and tend the wounded! Let's move, everyone!


Haar: ...Well, look at that. Someone's launched a flare... And from Felirae, of all places.
Lucia: The emergency signal from Geoffrey! As I suspected... The rebels were just a decoy. Sir Haar, thank you for your assistance.
Haar: Hey, wait... Are you telling me that you knew about this all along?
Lucia: We knew the duke was up to no good. But if we had known about the decoys, we wouldn't have sent the Royal Knights to Castle Felirae. I suppose I'm just surprised that Lord Ludveck, the supposed epitome of nobility, would so willingly sacrifice his followers.
Haar: You know...you play a pretty deep game, woman.
Lucia: We all do, wouldn't you say? Her Majesty is at Fort Alpea. We're due to hear from her at any moment. I'll go check on that.
Haar: Sharp as a tack, aren't we? I think I'll excuse myself, then...
Lucia: Actually, there's one more thing... I want you to wait here a little longer. If all goes as planned, I'll be back shortly with your payment. Then you may do as you wish.
Haar: And if all doesn't go as planned?
Lucia: Then set out for Fort Alpea and alert the queen. I'll also send a messenger to Geoffrey. Thank you. 
Haar: Very well, time for a nap...


???: ...
Lucia: ...Well? Any news from Queen Elincia?

Lucia: What?! How?!

Lucia: You...
Ludveck: Yes, me. I was very hurt by how cruelly you manipulated me, my lady. And I am not easily wounded.
Lucia: Lord Ludveck... How did you...
Ludveck: My lady, I am certain to know of any and all facts that concern your activities. My dear, lovely Lucia. Oh yes, it was quite some time ago that I was informed of both this place and your network of shadowy assistants.
Lucia: Ah.
Ludveck: I would like to know one more thing... Something only you are aware of. ...Where the queen is currently hiding.
Lucia: Good luck finding that out.
Ludveck: Perhaps it's a little place called...Alpea? All that foolishness... the ruses, the informers, the secret flight from the palace... Ha ha ha... All that effort, wasted.
Lucia: ...Is that so?
Ludveck: Hm? I can see that my lady still retains secrets. Would it trouble you so much to tell them to me?
Lucia: To you, Lord Ludveck? I am afraid there is nothing to tell.
Ludveck: Lady Lucia... I'm done with these games. You'll tell me whatever I wish to know... But I believe I already know your secret.
Lucia: We shall see.

@Narration
Having anticipated Queen Elincia's attack, the majority of Duke Ludveck's forces left Felirae. The troops stationed at Castle Felirae were merely the bait with which to lure Geoffrey and his troops away from Melior.
In Geoffrey's absence, Ludveck's objective is nothing less than to take the royal palace...and Queen Elincia with it. Lucia, foreseeing a possible attack on the capital, arranged for Queen Elincia and Princess Leanne to be secretly moved to Fort Alpea.
Yet Lucia herself is unable to evade Duke Ludveck's agents. She is captured in the dead of night while attempting to contact an informant.
Queen Elincia receives the sad news the next morning.

@Conversation 
Calill: Come on in!
Geoffrey: May I?
Calill: Well, speak of the devil! If it isn't General Geoffrey himself. I wouldn't have expected a visit, since you're leaving tomorrow.
Amy: Hi, General Geoffrey! What can we do for you today?
Geoffrey: Sorry, Amy, but I'm not here as a customer.
Amy: Huh?
Calill: Oh, I see why you're here. It's about time, too. I'm ready to string that blathering drunkard up by his heels.
Makalov: Ta dah...! Whoops... Who put that chair there? I could have been killed! Lady Calill, you beckoned?
Geoffrey: Makalov, why are you drinking? You realize that tomorrow we have a battle to fight, yes?
Makalov: Greetings, General! My, you're looking even more dashing and handsome than usual, Your Excellency.
Calill: Good grief... That man's an embarrassment. Are you sure he's a Royal Knight? He's like a pig pretending to fly. Why not put a dog in armor and call it "sir"!
Astrid: Miss Calill, that's not very nice! I think Sir Makalov deserves a little more respect than that.
Calill: Are you blind, Astrid? It's the night before a mission, and that fool is stinking drunk. Probably gambled all his money away, too. And you! You follow him around mooning over him and cleaning up his messes! Do you have no pride, girl? What the man needs is someone to slap some sense into him. Perhaps I should--
Astrid: I've chosen to look after Sir Makalov! Nobody's forced me to do it. And it's really none of your business!
Calill: You know, I'm really starting to wonder about your "good upbringing." Of all the men out there, what possessed you to place your bets on such a shabby prospect?
Astrid: Wh-what did you just say!? There are no gentlemen in this land half as fine as Sir Makalov!
Geoffrey: Oh my...
Largo: All right, settle down, everybody. Keep this up and the general's gonna pretend he doesn't know either of you.
Calill: Fine, fine. I'm sorry, all right? Happy? So... what was it that you needed with that ale-soaked oaf, anyway?
Geoffrey: I just wanted to go over our battle plan one last time before retiring.
Largo: I heard you're going after the duke of Felirae? You think you can handle him?
Geoffrey: Of course. However, he's been marshalling his forces for quite some time now. Which means our preparations will have to be flawless if we want to end this quickly.
Largo: If only I were up to it. You know me. Hah! I'd crush him! I'd kick him apart!
Calill: Well, I suppose I could go? Someone of my wisdom and power is easily worth two of you clods.
Largo: Yeah! That's a great idea, lamb-blossom. Like I always say, the best enemies are the ones that are on fire.
Geoffrey: I'm sorry, but no. Although I do appreciate the enthusiasm.
Calill: I don't see the problem! Do you think I've gone soft! My magic is still in tip-top shape, I'll have you know!
Geoffrey: No. It's just that I'm sure Queen Elincia wouldn't be pleased with civilians fighting against their countrymen.
Calill: Hmm. I suppose you have a point.
Danved: In that case, let Danved join you. Danved is not a citizen of Crimea. Danved will fight like ten men.
Geoffrey: Devdan! When did you get here?
Largo: Actually, General... This, uh... This is not Devdan. This is a friend of mine, Danved.
Danved: Yes, it's true. People often make that mistake. But Danved is definitely not Devdan.
Geoffrey: Uh-huh. You look exactly like him.
Largo: Doesn't he?! Amazing, isn't it? Anyway, you can take him with you. Oh, and no pressure, but the fate of our country depends on the Royal Knights. Good luck! Don't blow it!
Danved: Danved will fight like a bear! like a tiger! We don't need Largo and Calill, because Danved is pretty amazing.
Geoffrey: Uh... I understand, I think. Thank you for your help.
Calill: Well, I suppose that's settled. It's time for you to discuss tomorrow's tactics. Good luck with that. As for that useless drunk... I'll have someone carry him over later.
Geoffrey: Thank you.
Astrid: Sir Makalov is not useless! How many times do I have to say it!?
Geoffrey: Astrid. It's about time you got back, as well.
Astrid: Y-yes, General! Forgive me! I'll hurry back as soon as Sir Makalov is feeling better!
Geoffrey: Give me strength... The sooner, the better.

Geoffrey: Your Majesty! What are you doing with that lance?
Elincia: I asked your servant for it, and he gave it to me.
Geoffrey: Why would Your Majesty, as queen, do such a thing? Who knows how tangled the web of rumors could become, because of that...
Elincia: Let the court say what it wishes. You are far more important to me than the whispers of nattering nobles.
Geoffrey: ...You don't need to say that.
Elincia: Geoffrey... I'm sorry.
Geoffrey: I don't understand. What's wrong?
Elincia: Three years ago... you fought to free Crimea from the clutches of Daein. While you held this lance, your courage was dauntless and your prowess, legendary.
Geoffrey: Yes. It's a brave lance, and I'm very proud of it.
Elincia: I... I can't have you raise the same lance against your fellow people of Crimea. I'm sorry... I just can't.
Geoffrey: Your Majesty is worried about the shadow it would cast over my name? The dishonor of using that weapon on Crimeans?
Elincia: I would never want to damage your pride as a knight. It would be too much to bear.
Geoffrey: Believe no such thing, Your Majesty. My pride as a knight is most deeply rooted in my service to you. That will never waver, no matter what. Elincia... You know that.
Elincia: Then take your lance. Use it to fight for Crimea once again.

Kieran: Forgive my tardiness, sir! Kieran, second in command of the Royal Knights, at your service!
Geoffrey: Sorry to have disturbed your rest.
Kieran: Not at all! If it were your will, General, I would hasted to the very edge of the world at your calling.
Geoffrey: Kieran, I'm lucky to have such a devoted follower. This is no reward, but there's something I want you to have.
Kieran: A silver axe!? Th-this is... It's so sharp! Do you mean I can have it!?
Geoffrey: Do you like it?
Kieran: Like it? My heart is ready to burst! I feel... It's like it's my birthday, and I just got my first suit of armor!
Geoffrey: Wonderful. I'm glad to hear it.
Kieran: It will look fabulous on the mantel! My family will enjoy it for years to come. I can't tell you how grateful I am.
Geoffrey: Kieran, that's an axe, not a painting. Paintings are for mantels. Axes are for fighting. I want you to use that axe.
Kieran: What!? I couldn't!
Geoffrey: You can't refuse. It's an order.
Kieran: Sigh... Understood, sir! I promise to keep it well protected and free from scratches!
Geoffrey: Sigh. You're hopeless.
/***EOF***/
@Flashback
Ashera: Lehran... I will not...countenance this plan.
Lehran: Hear me, Goddess Ashera... Yune's imprisonment within the medallion has begun to change you. Order and chaos, you are one being, comprising both parts. The one must naturally affect the other.
Ashera: Even so, I will not return Yune to this body. She is unstable, and I must be perfect in order to protect this world. It is as I have said, Yune must be destroyed.
Lehran: Ashera, you mustn't! You cannot survive without your opposite. Please, you must not do this. Your world still needs you.
Ashera: Lehran, you have ever been a wise and kind- hearted child. In deference to you, I will place my faith in your kind one last time. For the next thousand years, I shall sleep as well. When I wake again, I hope it is to a world of peace and order, where all prosper as equals. If I do, then I will know that you have advised me well. I will reward your counsel. I will also allow Yune to return to me. I will once again be the goddess of creation, whole and complete. Ashunera, the Dawn Goddess... The name your ancestors gave me so long ago. I should like to hear it again.

Ashera: However, during this thousand years, if the chaos of war should arise and awaken Yune from her slumber in the medallion... I will know that you have strayed from your path, and I will punish your failure as I would reward your success. And then you will know my judgment. You will pay for your sins, each of you to the last.

Lehran: In the names of our people, we vow to keep this covenant. There will be no great war between laguz and beorc for a thousand years. So pledge Altina of the beorc, Dheginsea of the dragon tribes, Soan of the beast tribes, and I, Lehran, of the bird tribes.
Ashera: If you believe during this thousand years that you have created a world that has outgrown the atrocities of war... Or if you feel the world has fallen beyond hope of redemption, you may sing the galdr of release and awaken us both. Your heirs will possess that ability as well... Sing to awaken us, and tell us your tale. Tell us of the world your two kinds have built in our absence. We will listen, and we will judge fairly and impartially. This is our covenant with you.

@Intro
Ike: It's her...
Yune: Ashera.

Yune: Ashera! It's me...Yune. Can you hear me?

Ashera: ...
Yune: Please! Please listen to me! You don't need to pass any more judgment! You can return the people to normal!

Ashera: I cannot. There are still people in my world who are made of fallible flesh. This imperfect world has passed beyond control. Now, I shall pass my final judgment.
Yune: Wait! You can't violate the terms of the covenant, Ashera! One thousand years still hasn't passed. We were woken by galdr, not by mankind's war.
Ashera: It doesn't matter.



Ashera: During my long sleep, beorc and laguz continued to fight. The children of flesh will never learn nor grow. Time will pass as always, but nothing can change the destiny of mankind.

Yune: You have to look deeper! The first judgment didn't turn everyone to stone, and I'll tell you why. Because these people are not "people" as we know them. Ashera, these people have become something new!



Yune: People--the Zunanma--are the only living creatures of this world that we didn't create. Animals evolved to become Zunanma, who then became laguz and beorc. That evolution continues today!


Yune: Ashera... I'll tell you a secret you didn't know.  Children can be born of both a beorc and laguz parent. They are still very few in number, but if allowed to flourish, mankind might become anything! If the two races continue to evolve, I'm sure something wonderful will emerge! You can't just bring that to a halt.
Ashera: Do not claim certainty of anything. The children of this world are born of chaos, and nothing could be more uncertain. The world does not require the evolution of man. My responsibility is to protect order, the balance of all life-forms. Beings that evolve without my guidance will only destabilize and threaten this world. Because of that--
Yune: You have to wipe out everything made of flesh? Is that what you're trying to say? ...Very well then.
Yune: You and I have nothing more to talk about. My only choice is to defeat you.
Ashera: Yune, do not be absurd... You cannot overthrow me, just as I cannot overthrow you.
Yune: Of course not. But they can. Everyone! The time has come! Defeat Ashera, or everyone you love will be a statue forever!
Ashera: These people, they carry your blessing, Yune... You mean to fight me?
Ike: Ashera, our goddess... This is the world--and we are the people--you created. You make it sound as if we're some sort of filthy creatures that just decided to settle down here and cause trouble.
Yune: Ike! Don't say it like that.



Ike: We're not perfect. Sometimes our brains tell us one thing, while our emotions tell us another. And war... The more we try to avoid it, the worse it is when it comes to us.

Ike: People are probably the dumbest creatures alive.
Yune: But... Somehow you're also the most endearing. It's your imperfections that make you so interesting... Imperfections very similar to ours.
Ike: We know that we've messed up. We'll do our best to avoid more war and to make peace our highest priority. Ashera, just give us one more chance. All we ask for is one more chance.
Ashera: You expect me to reverse my judgment? The goddess of order cannot be so...mercurial. My decision is final.
Ike: So that's how it's going to be, huh? Then we will fight...  and we will save our people. Make your peace with whatever the gods worship. Your end is near.

Ashera: My end  is near?
Ike: In every battle that mattered in my life, I've always been the one left standing, no matter how slim my chances. This battle means more than any of the others, because it's for the life of every person that I've ever cared about. I will win this fight.

@Conversation
Soren: Ike... Um... Were you joking when you said you couldn't remember how we met?
Ike: Well, sorta. It was a long time ago.
Soren: How could you forget?
Ike: Relax, Soren. I got to thinking, and I remembered. I remember what happened in Gallia on the day we first met.
Soren: Ike...
Ike: Mother had gone shopping with Mist that day. I was wandering around the village all alone. I walked to the edge of the forest, looking for a stick I could pretend was a sword. There was a raven-haired boy lying on the ground.
Soren: I remember the huge oak tree by the clearing... I'd been sleeping in the hollow by the roots.
Ike: He looked like he was my age. He was as skinny as a twig, wearing rags and covered in dirt. He looked like he was near death. I took out my lunch and I handed it to him. He made a noise like a scared animal and shied away. He was suspicious of me at first, but eventually he took my sandwich and started to eat. It was like he'd never eaten before in his life. I didn't have anything else to feed him, so I told him to come to my house. But he kept shaking his head no.
Soren: I was afraid you were going to trick me. Afraid that you were going to chase me away after taunting me with food, just for a laugh...
Ike: I told the boy that I'd bring him some food the next day at the same time and place. He finally nodded when I said that. It made me happy. I felt like I was doing something right, helping this boy. Like I was the only one who'd do that.
Soren: ...I was happy, too. Not just because I wasn't hungry anymore. Because someone finally would talk to me. So I went back to the village again the next day. I was scared of the other villagers and their rocks and sticks, but I still went back.
Ike: That's right. That was Gallia back then. The beorc abused and tormented the Branded because the laguz shunned them. They wanted to avoid upsetting the laguz.
Soren: The villagers threw stones at me, called me an animal and a devil. But on the next day, the village was littered with corpses. Soldiers and peasants were in a panic.
Ike: It was my dad. He went crazy when the spirit of chaos in the medallion touched him.
Soren: I walked through the empty streets, checking bodies to see if you were dead. But I couldn't find you. I decided that you had to be alive. I took money and food from the village and headed for Crimea, a land of beorcs.
Ike: Soren...
Soren: On my way to Crimea, I kept seeing laguz from the beast tribe. They were terrifying, but after a while I realized something. They never attacked me. They all seemed to notice something about me, and then pretend they couldn't see me. That look was burned into my mind, and it was always the same. They'd scowl, then walk away like they'd never noticed me. In a way, that left me feeling older and more alone than if they'd attacked me. Hate... That I could understand. This was denial. They made me feel like I wasn't supposed to exist at all. That my simply being alive was an affront to the world. That was how the beasts treated me. And I hated them for it. It sat in my heart like a lead bar. Like a glacier.
Ike: ...
Soren: When I reached Crimea, I took refuge in a church along the way. They took my brand to be a sign that I had been trained in the arcane arts. They took good care of me, and taught me things. Once I had learned to speak and behave like other people, I wandered Crimea for several years. Then I finally found you.
Ike: But I'd...
Soren: Yes. You'd forgotten that day in Gallia. But I didn't care. My only wish was to see you again. I just wanted to see the only boy who had held out a warm hand when I had nothing.
Ike: Soren... Don't cry.
Soren: Don't cry? What? I'm not crying...
Ike: Soren, you're smart, but you're no good when it comes to your emotions. Come over here.
Soren: D-don't treat me like I'm a child! I'm not that--
Ike: Come on.
Soren: Shut up! Shut up...
Ike: Then I'll come over to you.
Ike: It's all in the past, Soren...
Soren: ...Sniff... Sniff... Gwuh... Wahhhhhhhh! Ahhhhhhh!

@Battle
Lehran: Forgive me, goddess. I must end my service to you now. My dear goddess, Ashera. Please forgive me!
Ashera: Lehran...
Lehran: Everything I've done was a mistake. This is all a result of my weakness. The changes were unbearable to watch, too frightening to understand. It grew painful to accept change, and with that my heart filled with cowardice. I was overwhelmed by the pain, and could think of nothing but soothing it. As long as I suffered, I was blind to anything else, even to the beautiful things of the world. I can see it now... The people deserve compassion. They deserve to have their lives back!
Ashera: No. You were always too flexible, too inconstant. You cannot sway me any further.
Lehran: Ashera... My goddess... Please.
Ashera: Be silent now and watch as I erase these things that confuse your simple heart.
Lehran: ...

Yune: Everyone, listen carefully. In order to reach Ashera, we must first destroy the aura protecting her. Got it? Attack the aura.


Ashera: You would face me in battle? I need no further evidence of your kind's imperfections. This will hardly be a battle at all. Simply an end. Perish, flawed one.


Micaiah: The aura is gone.
Ike: Excellent. Now we can finish this.
Ashera: ...

@Battle-Talk 
%Kurthnaga,Lehran
Kurthnaga: You're Lehran...
Lehran: Prince Kurthnaga... How you've grown.
Kurthnaga: You know who I am?
Lehran: I resided in Goldoa for more than seven hundred years.
Kurthnaga: I... I had no idea.
Lehran: That's because I was kept in hiding. But I did meet you several times, when you were just an infant.
Kurthnaga: I remember a...a mysterious man with black wings. Was that you? I always thought it was a dream...
Lehran: ...
Kurthnaga: I was always so fascinated by that man and his songs... I remember him well, and fondly.

%Sanaki,Lehran
Sanaki: You finally made it, Sephiran.
Lehran: Sanaki, I...
Sanaki: I was starting to wonder how I would punish you.
Lehran: I'm sorry?
Sanaki: You are my subordinate, after all. I have decided that leaving one's empress to die is punishable by drowning in a pool of rancid butter.
Lehran: Of course it is, my empress.
Sanaki: I hope you're a strong swimmer.

%Micaiah,Lehran
Micaiah: Um...
Lehran: Yes?
Micaiah: You're Lehran, aren't you?
Lehran: Yes.
Micaiah: You... Forgive me for asking, but... Aren't you my--
Lehran: Can we talk about this later?
Micaiah: What? Oh, I mean, of course... Sorry to bother you...
Lehran: Child, you couldn't possibly bother me. It's just, the talk you and I must have is going to take a long time. I don't think Ashera would wait for us to finish.
Micaiah: Oh... Very well.
Lehran: What is it?
Micaiah: Oh, nothing... Never mind. 
Lehran: Micaiah?
Micaiah: Y-yes?
Lehran: Looks like you could use some backup. I'm good with a staff, too, you know.
Micaiah: Th-thank you.

%Ike,Lehran
Ike: Sephiran... I mean, Lehran...
Lehran: I can't apologize enough. I was so terribly mistaken, and now there's nothing I can do to help.
Ike: Don't worry.
Lehran: What? z Ike: Wanting to do something that matters is enough. Sometimes, how you feel is more important than how you act.
Lehran: Ike, I... There's no one that I think more highly of...
Ike: No time for compliments. We still have work to do here.
Lehran: Yes... Yes, we do.

@Boss
Ashera: You would face me in battle? I need no further evidence of your kind's imperfections. This will hardly be a battle at all. Simply an end. Perish, flawed one.

%Ike,Ashera
Ashera: It is tragic that you are too limited to see how hopeless this is. You cannot hope to defeat the divine.
Ike: You're right. We can't hope to defeat you.
Ashera: Then why continue?
Ike: You haven't left us much choice. I'd rather die like this instead of being turned into some mindless statue.
Ashera: Simpleminded fool...

%Micaiah,Ashera
Ashera: Don't waste your energy, fleshling. You are physically unable to harm me.
Micaiah: Yune... I'm fine. I can hear you. No, I'm not afraid. I know you're with me.

%Kurthnaga,Ashera
Ashera: Ah, son of the dragon king... You may be the greatest among the enfleshed, but you are no match for me.
Kurth: Goddess Ashera, please listen to me. We know that we are clearly imperfect, but you, unnaturally created of pure order... Might that not be considered an imperfection?
Ashera: No, I am perfect. Free of emotion, I have no doubts. Therefore I commit no errors.

%Lehran,Ashera
Ashera: Lehran, you have joined my enemies?
Lehran: My goddess... Never before have I defied you in even the least thing. But I have seen the error of my ways and wish to save the people whom I once desired to destroy. I am one man, and my life is precious. How much more precious are the lives of the countless multitudes?

@Battle
Ashera: ...
Ike: It's over. It's all over...
Micaiah: We did it. Our fighting is finally done. Now the people...
Ike: Now the people should all turn back to normal.
Micaiah: Yes!
Ike: Let's get out of here. I'm sure the others are getting tired of waiting for us outside.
Yune: Wait!
Ike: Huh?!

Ashera: ...
Ike: What... What's going on? This is insane! We defeated her...
Ashera: You defeated nothing. This is nothing at all out of the ordinary. Mortals cannot defeat the divine. It is not possible.
Micaiah: But... We won... General Ike... We have to fight one more time! The people out there need our help!
Ashera: You can try as many times as you like. The result will always be the same. There is no way for you to win.
Micaiah: I can't believe that! General Ike, you can do it! Forge a new destiny for us! Ike, please... You've got to!
Ike: I don't need encouragement. I'd fight to the end no matter what. Ashera, you can't stop me. It doesn't matter if you're a goddess. It doesn't matter if I have no way to win. Fighting defines me, and I will not lose.
Ashera: When will you tiresome gnats surrender?

@Cutscene 
Yune: We have to put an end to this. Take all the power I have.
Ike: Thank you. I'll use it well.

Ike: What of you? Are you leaving?
Yune: I am. But I believe it's for the best. This world does not need gods. We have always failed you. We've made you weak. That's why we must...go.
Ike: You don't have to leave.
Yune: Hm?
Ike: It's true, we don't have much use for gods. But, well... You show us what we should aspire to. We need inspiration. You give us a reason to grow. To become more than we are.

Ike: And if we don't have that, Yune, we're nothing more than statues.
Yune: Can you forgive me for the pain I've caused?
Ike: I don't know. But you have already forgiven us. How could we not?

Ike: We are all family. We will try to understand one another, even when we disagree.
Yune: You're right. I will try. One more time.
/***EOF***/
@Intro
Pelleas: Micaiah, what's going on? I heard that you took ill on the field. Are you all right? What happened?
Sothe: What do you think, genius? Micaiah fainted because you've been pushing her too hard! She's terrified that she won't live up to your expectations.
Pelleas: I didn't realize... I am so sorry, Micaiah.
Tauroneo: According to the doctor, she is suffering from severe exhaustion. She must stay in bed for a time.
Pelleas: Well, I'm glad that she is all right. Do you think it will take long for her to recover? We must stop the laguz, after all. Our task is not complete.
Sothe: OK, that's it! Are you out of your mind? I'm getting Micaiah out of here. At this rate, if the laguz that we shouldn't be fighting don't kill her, you certainly will.
Pelleas: What?! B-but you can't leave!
Sothe: Oh yeah? I'd like to see you stop me. I held out until now, thinking it was best for Daein. I was wrong. We're through with you.
Pelleas: Please, Sothe! You must reconsider! Micaiah can't leave now.
Tauroneo: King Pelleas, I agree with Sothe. Let Lady Micaiah go. She has done enough.
Pelleas: No, don't leave! Please! I'm begging you! I need Micaiah to stay!

Almedha: P-Pelleas?! What are you doing?!
Pelleas: Our army cannot function without Micaiah. I can't let that happen! The army must continue the fight!
Sothe: Listen, I don't know what deals you've made with the empire behind our backs, but I won't let you hurt her anymore.
Pelleas: If Micaiah leaves the army...she will die.

Sothe: So now the king shows his true colors... Pelleas, I don't care if you're the king. Threaten Micaiah again, and I'll kill you where you stand. Is that clear?
Pelleas: She won't be the only one to die. You. Me. Every single person in Daein. We'll all die. And it's all my fault.
Almedha: Pelleas, you didn't... You signed a blood pact, didn't you?

Almedha: You signed a blood pact with the senate after you were crowned! That's why you've been so scared, so terrified as of late. Oh, my son... 

Micaiah: What is...a blood pact?

Sothe: Micaiah! You should try to--
Micaiah: Please tell me, Your Majesty. What is a blood pact?

Pelleas: I-I swear to you. I didn't know. I had no idea...

@Flashback
Pelleas: What could be so urgent that the empire's messenger would pay a visit at this hour? Has something happened?
Messenger: King Pelleas... Please prepare to receive Vice-Minister Lekain.
Pelleas: What?!

Lekain: How do you do, King Pelleas?
Pelleas: H-how did you get here?!
Lekain: Our empire's magical research has made leaps and bounds. This rewarp staff is our latest invention. With this staff, one can get to any desired destination instantly. Isn't that just wonderful? Before this lovely little item, we used that ghastly warp powder. It worked well enough, but would completely exhaust whoever used it. What's the use of someone traveling anywhere they wish if they're too exhausted to do anything afterward? It'd take a very strong soldier to withstand the powder's side effects. The rewrap staff solves that problem.
Messenger: Vice-Minister...
Lekain: Ah, now I've said too much. I just can't help myself. I love innovation so.
Pelleas: Um... If I may, what is the purpose of your visit?
Lekain: Oh, yes. No time for idle chatter. We have a favor to ask of you, Your Majesty. As you are no doubt aware, the false apostle has raised an army of sub-humans to reclaim her throne. We require the use of the Daein army to wipe out this upstart "Laguz Alliance." Would you be so kind?
Pelleas: I... I'm afraid I cannot deploy my army on Begnion's behalf. My country cannot continue to rebuild while fighting a war. Please understand.
Lekain: Ah, so you reject our request? Then I've no choice but to watch you and your people perish slowly.
Pelleas: What?! You came here to make threats?
Lekain: The terms of our pact are quite clear in this document.



Pelleas: That's the treaty I signed on the day of my coronation. I don't see how this pertains to--
Lekain: All will be made clear, young Pelleas. Yes, this is the same document. You, my naïve young king, signed it believing it was an oath of reparation from Begnion. Sadly for you, however...
Pelleas: What are you telling me?
Lekain: In truth, this wonderful scrap of parchment is a blood pact. Once you sign the paper in blood, you can never break the terms of the pact!
Pelleas: A blood pact? But Izuka said he saw no problems with the terms of the treaty... No! Izuka? No, how could he...
Lekain: That's right. Izuka is one of us. He found the perfect king who would execute the senate's will.
Pelleas: I can't believe it! I won't!



Lekain: You'd better start believing it. You've at least heard stories of the forbidden "blood pact," haven't you? It's a marvelous tool used by the wise to control the foolish. A ruler agreeing to the pact is bound to it...absolutely. Once sworn, the pact will punish any transgression against its terms with the complete destruction of his country.
Pelleas: You...you can't be serious. That's impossible!
Lekain: Calm yourself, young king, and listen. I'll tell you an interesting story. Long ago, a foolhardy king signed a blood pact with the empire to take back his lost kingdom. In exchange for his country, he vowed complete obedience. He soon broke the terms of the pact and began to disobey the empire. Presumably he didn't understand the power of the oath he'd sworn... Would you like to hear what happened after he defied the empire's will?

Pelleas: ...What?
Lekain: It was quite tragic. One man died on the first day. He was only a peasant, so no one really noticed. Two more died on the second day. Three more on the third day. I think you can see where this is going. The wave of mysterious deaths spread across the kingdom like a contagion. After thirty days, the king finally realized that this was the curse of the blood pact, the price of infidelity. He apologized to the empire and pleaded with them to lift the curse. His plea was graciously accepted on the one hundredth day. By then, the king had lost half of his subordinates, as well as his lovely wife and child. That country remained under the control of the senate for a very long time.

Lekain: I hope I've made myself clear. No matter how you struggle, you have no choice but to follow the orders given to you by the empire. No matter how noble your motives, defiance against us will result in the death of your nation. This you must never forget. Ahhh, and one more thing... If you're considering seeking aid from outside of Daein, think again. We have spies and informants in every corner of Tellius. We will know immediately if you tell anyone.

@Intro
Sothe: Let me get this straight. Everyone in Daein will die if you disobey the senate? 
Tauroneo: What a heavy burden... It cannot be! 
Almedha: Show Mother the mark of your pact.

Almedha: It's true... This is the mark of a blood pact. My son has been deceived!
Sothe: Oh, give it up! You expect us to buy that ghost story? It's just something to scare little kings into eating their vegetables! Before you go shining Begnion's boots, get some proof of the senate's claims!
Almedha: ...
Sothe: We've done enough here. Micaiah, let's go. We'll let them find out if that story is real or not.
Micaiah: It's all true, Sothe.
Sothe: What?
Micaiah: King Pelleas and Queen Almedha are telling us the truth. It's hard to believe, but I can see it... My power hasn't gone away. It was just weakened from exhaustion. This is all so horrible... Now Daein can never be free from the senate's leash.
Sothe: Even if it's true, Micaiah, that doesn't mean you have to go to war again. We could leave Daein...
Micaiah: But without me, who would hold our forces together? Leaving the army would be the same as abandoning the people of Daein. I won't do it.
Sothe: But...
Pelleas: I'm sorry, everyone.. I'm so sorry... I-I-I didn't know...
Tauroneo: King Pelleas... What then do you propose we do?
Pelleas: Why, obey the empire, of course. We have no other choice in the matter. As long as I follow the senate's orders, no one will die because of me.
Sothe: No, I can't accept that! We have finally wrested our country back from the occupation forces... I'd rather be dead than have to bend to the will of the empire. What are we, dogs?!
Tauroneo: And now that Begnion is ordering Daein troops into battle, we are treated as disposable pawns. Many Daein citizens will die of this pact, whether we obey it or not.
Pelleas: It would appear that I have been crowned king during the last days of Daein. Follow or fight...the result is the same. We will be destroyed.
Micaiah: With all due respect, Your Majesty, we can't give up!
Pelleas: What?
Micaiah: You heard me. The only way to really be doomed is to give up.
Pelleas: Micaiah, there's no way out of a blood pact. None! What do you suggest we do?
Micaiah: Look for a way out. I know Duke Lekain says the pact can't be broken, but of course he'd say that! King Pelleas, you have the resources of an entire country to draw on, and the best of reasons to do so. Check the royal library! Check the archives! Somewhere, I'm sure you'll find...something.
Pelleas: Micaiah, forgive me. I was so overwhelmed that I let myself give in to despair. But you're absolutely right. We can't give up just yet. We have people to save!
Tauroneo: Unfortunately, we don't have much time. Begnion will not put off triggering the blood pact until after we've found a way to break it.
Micaiah: We can make time. If we take on the empress and the laguz forces, it'll look as if we're obeying the senate. In the meantime, you can research the pact.
Pelleas: All right. I'll start immediately. Just give me as much time as you can...
Micaiah: Of course. We'll do our best to hold them back...whatever it takes.


Sothe: It looks as if the apostle's forces are using this road to avoid a head-on confrontation. I guess we were right in assuming that they don't necessarily want to fight. Micaiah, are you still set on this?
Micaiah: Are the rocks ready?
Tauroneo: Yes. They're in position.

Daein: General Maiel's forces have encountered General Ike's laguz forces. The battle has begun! The decoy operation succeeded. The apostle and her Holy Guards are heading this way. 
Micaiah:  All forces, get in position! Our target is the apostle. We will attack her while General Ike is distracted. If we let her through, her army will cross into Begnion. That will surely anger the senate, and the senate will move to destroy Daein. We must fight with everything we have so that Daein may live on!
Sothe: But, Micaiah... Is this really necessary? Can't we avoid all of this fighting and somehow pretend to obey the senate?
Tauroneo: Micaiah, it was you more than anyone else who used to hate plans like this...
Micaiah: The apostle's army has incredible numbers. We wouldn't stand a chance taking them head-on. They would march right through us. We need to give Pelleas more time, but if we hold back, the senate will know we're up to something. For now...let's just try to draw this out a bit and stop the apostle's army.
Tauroneo: Lady Micaiah. Your strength moves me. I shall not falter.
Sothe: Micaiah... All right. Let's do it. Let's do it for our friends--and for our country.

Daein: We have visual confirmation on the Holy Guards! They're heading this way!

@Battle
Tanith: Blast! We're being ambushed! I should have known...
Sanaki: What is happening?!
Sigrun: We're under attack. We will engage them now. Please stay inside the carriage, Your Majesty.
Tanith: Someone, go tell General Ike!

@Recruit-Battle 
Sigrun: Fear is our greatest enemy! Defend the apostle with your lives!

Sigrun: Nnngh... I must not...falter...
Sanaki: Sigrun! Pull back! Get out of here right now!
Sigrun: No, Apostle Sanaki. I shall fight until my last breath! I won't leave your side until...you are safe.
Sanaki: Sigrun!

%Micaiah,Sigrun
Sigrun: You are Daein's Maiden of Dawn? Your reputation is known across the face of Tellius. They say you are the savior who rescued the people of Daein from the empire's oppression. I see now that their stories were false. Daein remains a simple puppet.
Micaiah: I am not here to talk, I am here to fight. This is Daein's only chance of survival.

%Sothe,Sigrun
Sothe: I knew I'd run into you. You never leave the apostle's side.
Sigrun: You... You used to travel with the Greil Mercenaries.
Sothe: Used to. Not anymore. I'm a member of the Daein army now.
Sigrun: Does Sir Ike know about this?
Sothe: It doesn't matter. I'm my own person.
Sigrun: You're right. It doesn't matter. If you are after the apostle, you are my enemy. Prepare to meet the goddess.

%Jill,Sigrun
Sigrun: If I may ask... Are you not Lord Fizzart’s daughter?
Jill: How did you know?
Sigrun: I am Sigrun of the Holy Guards. Have you not heard my name from Haar?
Jill: Yes, I remember... You were the one who negotiated to let my father’s men and their families stay in Begnion.
Sigrun: That’s right.
Jill: ...I’m so sorry. I’m sorry we have to meet under these circumstances.
Sigrun: Lady Jill... It’s not too late. Would you please withdraw?
Jill: No... I can’t. I know that this mission is terrible. Even so, I cannot abandon my comrades or my country.
Sigrun: I see... Very well. I shall remember your conviction when the battle is done.

%Zihark,Sigrun
Sigrun: I remember you... You used to travel with the Greil Mercenaries. Why are you fighting us?
Zihark: I couldn’t abandon the people of my homeland.
Sigrun: I see... You are from Daein. Then there is no way for us to avoid this confrontation?
Zihark: I’m afraid not. Just like you want to protect your own country, I want to protect mine.
Sigrun: ... I am sorry to hear that.

@Recruit-Battle 
Tanith: Come to me, you dogs. Whatever might you think you possess pales to that of the Holy Guard.

Tanith: Ugh! I must...protect the apostle! I am a Holy Guard! It is my duty...
Sanaki: Tanith! Stop fighting! You must not throw your life away!
Tanith: I cannot fight any longer... but I can become your shield. I will not let the enemy harm you. Not even a scratch.
Sanaki: Tanith...

%Sothe,Tanith
Tanith: Sothe. How you've grown. I didn't recognize you at first.
Sothe: ...You haven't changed much.
Tanith: I don't understand why you are with the Daein army, but it doesn't matter. All I need to know is that you stand before me. Are you my enemy, then? Or is this some kind of mistake?
Sothe: It's not mistake. I'm your enemy. And I'm prepared to fight.
Tanith: Then this conversation is useless. Have at you!

%Jill,Tanith
Tanith: Jill! Why does Daein continue to fight us? Does the Maiden of Dawn hunger for blood? Or is she a warmongering fool who doesn’t listen to reason?
Jill: She is none of those things! Lady Micaiah fights for the people of Daein!
Tanith: For the people, you say? Look around you, naive girl! Is all this death for the people?!
Jill: I-I can’t explain! We don’t have any choice in the matter!
Tanith: Fools! You merely assume that you have no choice!

%Zihark,Tanith
Tanith: You used to fight alongside the Greil Mercenaries! You now fight for Daein? But General Ike is on our si–
Zihark: Yes, I’m aware of that. Even so, I can’t pull out of this fight.
Tanith: Then you are the apostle’s enemy! Prepare to die.

@Recruit-Battle 
Kieran: Lying in wait for your enemies! What a dirty trick!

%Micaiah,Kieran
Kieran: I am Kieran of the Crimean Royal Knights! Prepare yourselves, evildoers of Daein!
Micaiah: I don't care what you say. This is our only choice! We can't stop fighting!

%Sothe,Kieran
Kieran: You! You used to travel with the Greil Mercenaries!
Sothe: Wait, I know you... Crimea's Royal Knights, Fifth Platoon Leader...
Kieran: I am the second commander of the Royal Knights now!
Sothe: Ah, you did well for yourself. Are you still traveling with Oscar?
Kieran: Yes, he's my archrival!
Sothe: Um, what's your name again?
Kieran: It's Kieran! How dare you forget my name!
Sothe: Oh, right, now I've got it. I hated the way you'd announce your name in the middle of the battlefield. That was annoying.
Kieran: And now you insult me! Even though we know each other, I will not go easy on you! You are my enemy now! This is your last chance to run. I'll give you to the count of three! One... Two... Three...
Sothe: Hey now, don't get mad. Other than the announcing thing, you were all right. But I have to fight. Prepare yourself!

%Jill,Kieran
Kieran: Dracoknight Jill! Why did you return to the Daein army?!
Jill: I...
Kieran: Last time we fought together, you betrayed your heartless homeland to fight on Crimea’s side! You used to know how to tell right from wrong! What happened?
Jill: Sir Kieran...
Kieran: Why do you look so sad? It isn’t like you! Come, join us in righteousness!
Jill: I truly envy you. You fight with pride and loyalty in your heart. I wish I could do the same, these days...

%Zihark,Kieran
Kieran: Zihark! What are you doing in the Daein army?!
Zihark: I couldn’t abandon the people of my homeland.
Kieran: You are originally from Daein?
Zihark: That’s right. I want to protect my country, just like you want to protect yours. That’s why I fight for the Daein army.
Kieran: I am sorry to hear that... I will not go easy on you just because we know each other.
Zihark: Thanks, Kieran. I prefer it that way.

@Recruit-Battle
Kieran: Ugh... Aargh! We will pull back temporarily! I'm not fool enough to let my men die needlessly!


@End
Sothe: We're in position at the top of the cliff, and the Holy Guards are at the bottom. Just as we planned.
Micaiah: All right. Thank you.
Sothe: There is no turning back now, Micaiah. You have to give the order.
Micaiah: Yes, I know. 

Daein: General Maiel has fallen to the claws of the sub-humans! General Ike and the Laguz Alliance are heading this way to rescue the apostle!
Micaiah: ...Prepare to move to the next phase. Archers, get ready! There's no more time for doubt.

Sanaki: What are they doing? What are they pouring down the cliff?
Sigrun: No! It's... It's oil! They're going to set us aflame! Apostle, onto my pegasus! We'll take to the sky!
Tanith: We will protect the apostle from the archers by becoming her shield! Holy Guards, form up!

Sanaki: No! No, Sigrun! We cannot leave the others here! I will not allow it!
Tanith: Commander, we're ready!

Micaiah: Don't let the apostle escape! Archers, mages! Bring down that pegasus!

Tibarn: Don't move. I see one arrow fly, and the boy gets a quick lesson in falling.
Sothe: Tibarn! Urk!
Micaiah: Sothe! No, please! All units, cease fire! Now!



Tauroneo: General Ike has reached us... We've failed.
Ike: Micaiah of Daein, listen to me very, very carefully.
Micaiah: Tell him to let Sothe go!
Ike: Not a chance. I'm offering you a choice. Surrender now and go home to Daein, or fight us and die.
Micaiah: We can't. We won't retreat or negotiate. Regardless of what you believe, the only choice we have is to fight.
Ranulf: Micaiah, are you insane? Look around! Every single person in your army will die! Do you care that little about them?
???: Enough! Everyone stand down!

Ike: Apostle...
Sanaki: I've seen enough bloodshed for one day! That's enough! Please, no more...

Ike: We'll retreat for now. You'd better do the same, and I mean now. I'm not sure how long I can hold my men back.
Micaiah: But we can't!
Tibarn: Fine. His death is on your hands, then. Sorry, little Sothe, your friend just killed you. Say a quick good-bye.
Sothe: No, wait, Micai--!

Micaiah: NOOO! SOTHE! 


Micaiah: Oh, thank the goddess. Sothe...
Tibarn: Take this as a lesson, little beorc. Next time, there won't be anyone to catch you.

Ike: General Tauroneo, I'll ask you one last time: talk some sense into that girl, all right? She's losing it.
Tauroneo: ...We won't pursue you this time. However, we cannot avoid this war. That is all I will say for now. And Ike...I'm sorry for this.
Ike: What is going on with you people...



Ike: What's the situation?
Soren: It's awful. The Begnion Central Army and the Crimean Royal Knights have almost been completely obliterated. On top of that, the oil that Daein used has injured the Holy Guards' pegasi and all but grounded them.
Ike: Yeah, I think awful fits. Thoughts, everyone?
Skrimir: Thoughts?! Daein must answer for this! We attack them immediately!
Ranulf: We can't. If we fought Daein now, we couldn't possibly take on the senate's armies. We have to get Daein to listen to us.
Sanaki: Confusion is exactly what Lekain wants. Daein is merely a pawn in his scheme. But there is one thing I do not understand. Why use such horrible tactics? Oil and fire? What is that girl Micaiah thinking?
???: Micaiah? The Imperial Army has Micaiah on their side?

Tibarn: Rafiel! When did you arrive?
Rafiel: Just now, with Reyson and Queen Nailah.
Nailah: Reyson went straight to his sister. He will be here with Leanne in a moment.
Ike: Is it all right for the three of you to be here? What about the medallion?
Rafiel: The medallion is right here.
Nailah: We're very near the point where galdrar won't be able to contain its power. If this war goes on much longer, the dark god will surely awaken.




Almedha: Please... Please save him. Please save my son. Come save my Pelleas, I beg of you...

Pelleas: I've found it! This is it! A way to break the blood pact! Thank the goddess... I will be able to save my people after all.


Ena: Prince Kurth? What are you doing out so late? Looking for something?
Kurthnaga: Oh, hello, Ena. No, I was just looking at the moon. Its reflection on the lake is quite lovely, isn't it?
Ena: Yes, quite.
Kurthnaga: ...


Begnion: You! H-how did you get in?! How did you find us?! Help, he's here!  Aaaargh!
???: My apologies for the long wait.
???: Is the apostle safe?
???: She fled to Crimea, then exposed the senate's plots to the world. Currently, she leads the apostle's army through Daein and is preparing to storm the empire.
???: I see. Very well... It's time for us to make our move.
Zelgius: As you wish, my master.

@Narration
Daein launches a surprise attack against the apostle's army, devastating her forces. It is all Apostle Sanaki can do to allay her remaining troops' burning desire for revenge. She knows that there is no hope of victory if her weakened forces are divided. However, she cannot move forward while danger follows at her back. This dilemma weighs heavily on the apostle's troops, crushing their morale.
Meanwhile, the Daein forces pull back to the fastness of Nox Castle. Micaiah, unable to explain her mission to her soldiers, keeps Daein's army together through sheer force of will.

@Conversation 
Pelleas: I have to head back to the castle. I have to know if there is a way to break free of the blood pact.
Micaiah: Please be careful.
Pelleas: ...Please, Micaiah. Stop being so kind to me. It’s too difficult for me.
Micaiah: I can feel how you’ve suffered. You’ve had to endure it all alone for so long. It’s ghastly.
Pelleas: It was my fault... I brought this curse upon Daein!
Micaiah: No! You didn’t know! I will protect Daein. I’ll protect our country from harm, no matter what happens. You have my word.
Pelleas: Micaiah... Very well. I won’t give up. We’ll fight destiny together.
Micaiah: Yes.
Pelleas: I want you to take this. I found another one in the treasure room of the castle. Stand fast, Micaiah. I will find a way to save Daein.
Micaiah: ...

Tauroneo: Sothe.
Sothe: Hello, General.
Tauroneo: I thought you were going to leave the army, taking Lady Micaiah with you.
Sothe: I was. But now we can’t. Both Micaiah and I are from Daein. We can’t abandon our own country.
Tauroneo: Hmm. I wonder if it’s the same if you leave Daein...
Sothe: I don’t understand.
Tauroneo: If you abandoned Daein and fought on the side of a different country, I wonder if you’d still be cursed?
Sothe: Who knows? I’m not a sage. In any case, it doesn’t matter. Micaiah would never leave Daein behind.
Tauroneo: I see. Sothe, here. Take these.
Sothe: Why are you giving me these?
Tauroneo: I kept them as a parting gift to you. Since you’re staying, I’d like you to take them now.
Sothe: General...

Sothe: These are all the funds we have for the near future. The problem now is stopping the apostle’s army from advancing.
Micaiah: Conventional tactics won’t slow them down. They’ll easily break through our lines. ...What should we do?
Sothe: Micaiah?
Micaiah: ...
Sothe: Are you all right? I’ll leave the gold here. You’re still not completely recovered yet. You have to rest, Micaiah.
Micaiah: I’ll try.
Sothe: Keep safe.

Sothe: Nolan. Sorry to keep you waiting.
Nolan: Hmm? Hey, Sothe. Don’t worry. I was reading while I waited.
Sothe: I didn’t realize you were such a dedicated reader, Nolan.
Nolan: It’s human nature to crave knowledge. I thought you would know that as well as anyone. How is Micaiah, by the way? Is she doing well?
Sothe: Yeah, I believe so. She’s alert, and she seems generally stronger.
Nolan: I see. Well, that’s good, right?
Sothe: Sorry to make you worry.
Nolan: Don’t mention it.
Sothe: And...I...brought this for you.
Nolan: Hey, now! This is a good axe. Must have cost you a fair bit. Thanks.
Sothe: Nolan, I...
Nolan: Don’t force it. You’ll only hurt yourself.
Sothe: What?
Nolan: You look like you’re carrying the weight of the world on your shoulders. You’re wondering if you should tell me, right?
Sothe: Right...
Nolan: The best thing to do is think it over. Give it some time to sit. Later, if you decide you want to tell me, you know exactly where to find me.
Sothe: I will. Thanks, Nolan.
Nolan: Anytime.

???: There she is! Hey, lady!
Micaiah: Who? Oh, Nico!
Nico: This is great. I was hoping I’d find you.
Lady: Nico, mind your manners. The Silver-Haired Maiden is the saviour of Daein. She’s not just some "lady."
Micaiah: Oh, it’s all right. I’m still the same simple girl from Daein you met before. Nothing’s changed. So, are things well with you?
Lady: Well, the fighting’s got everyone worried, coming so soon after the last war and all... But we’re doing all we can for Daein! It doesn’t matter who or what we’re up against. Believe me when I tell you we’ll never give up.
Nico: That’s right! We won’t give up. Ever! I know we’re gonna win, too. ‘Cause we’ve got you on our side. That’s what everybody says. The Dawn Brigade will save us.
Micaiah: Is that what they say? I see... Listen to me, Nico. You can believe in us. I promise we’ll keep you safe.
Nico: I knew it!
Lady: Come along, Nico. We should be going. The maiden’s got better things to do than stand here chatting with us all day.
Nico: Bye, lady! See you later!
Micaiah: Yes...good-bye, Nico.
Sothe: ...
Micaiah: I... I want to save them all. The world is a better place with people like them in it.
Sothe: I know how you feel, Micaiah. That’s why we started all this. We’ve always been fighting for them. But this war we’re in... It’s not just. We’re fighting on the wrong side.
Micaiah: I know. I don’t want to see anyone die. It’s ironic... I’m killing with no malice, because I don’t want anyone to be killed. I... What am I supposed to do? Am I supposed to stand back and let all of Daein perish? Is that the "just" thing to do?
Sothe: ...
Micaiah: If that’s what it takes to be just, then I want nothing to do with justice. I’d rather be hated and feared like Mad King Ashnard. I’d rather the dark god take my soul. I’m going to save my people, Sothe. If the rest of the world paints me as a beast to be reviled and hated, so be it.
/***EOF***/
