Nina: Let me go! Let me go!
Niles: Nina, it's over. Now you're going to get what's coming to you.
Nina: We have wildly differing view on justice. Do your worst, villain.
Niles: Huh? I'm not half the villain you think I am. Why, not even a tenth.
Nina: I spit on your idea of villainy then. And you think you know me? You rarely visited. I made myself into who I am. You shouldn't be surprised that we're different as night and day. So take out your weapon. Do what you must, villain.
Niles: Stop saying that.
Nina: Arghh! Just do it already!
Niles: Wait! This foolishness must end. Come with me, Daughter.
Nina: No! Never.
Niles: Listen—how can you just throw your life away? How can you say that I never had a care for you? Why do you think I hid you in the Deeprealms?
Nina: Because I wasn't worth your time!
Niles: No. I would have kept you near as my dearest treasure. I didn't want you to get caught up in the fighting of our time. I wanted you to be safe. My world does terrible things to people. I have endured it all. But if something happened to you, it would have been the end of me.
Nina: ...
Niles: I haven't convinced you, clearly. I'll let you go free. But only as a member of our party. I wish you hadn't chosen a thief's life, but I can keep you from the worst of it.
Nina: You want me to join you? I won't abandon my cause. You're clueless about what I'm doing. The man who owns this manor... Do you KNOW how he got all his money? He's destroyed families. He's swindled women and men of their life savings. One of the people in my group grew up in one such family. We demand justice! And that leaves you and me only one way out of this.
Niles: Nina, please...
Nina: Father, I'll admit that I may have misjudged you—a little. I consider myself a fair woman, so I'll give you one last chance. If you and your friends look into this vile man's dealings... I'll join your party.
Niles: Yes, well, many people misjudge me. But I've done the same to you. I promise to do better, starting now. We'll do what we can here.

Niles: Sorry this all got so damned complicated. Leave it to me to turn a standard manor mission into a family crisis.
Silas: No, don't worry. Besides, thanks to Nina, we exposed what was going on. She was right as can be about the evil schemes this man was up to. We should be thanking your daughter. I know Corrin feels the same.
Niles: Ah, really? What a relief. I hate airing my dirty laundry in public.
Nina: ... Oh, what are THEY muttering about? Awfully chummy, those two. The fellow my father is talking to...not bad...not bad... I guess there IS a silver lining in being stuck in my father's brigade. Are there more fine gents worthy of my attention? Maybe a whole smorgasbord of masculine delights?
Niles: Huh? Daughter? What is it? Silas believes that you're staring. Do you need something?
Nina: Nope. Nothing. I'm just fine. You two just carry on.
Niles: Yeah, fine. We, uh, will.
Nina: Wellity, wellity, wellity... Silas is quite the appetizer. I hope there are more tasty sights in store!