Frederick: I believe the same, my prince. Robin is too strong to simply disappear. It falls to us to look after the realm until he/she returns.

Sully: Robin had damn well BETTER come back! If that blasted dragon truly got him/her, I'll be the one breathing fire!

Virion: He/She made a noble sacrifice, and I know my nobility! And I know Robin shall someday return!

Vaike: Robin has gotta be out there somewhere... How do I know? Hey, you don't question the Vaike!

Stahl: I can feel it, too. Robin is out there waiting for us. Though I surely will miss him/her in the meantime...

Miriel: While statistically unsubstantiated, I have what laymen might call a "hunch." This hunch corroborates with most of the statements made thus far.

Kellam: Robin, I know you're out there... I know you're not gone... And no one knows more about being lost and found than me!

Sumia: I wish he/she could have stayed with us long enough to see me grow stronger... But all the more reason to work hard between now and his/her return!

Lon'qu: ...He/She lives. I know it. Some people just aren't the dying sort.

Ricken: If Chrom believes he's/she's all right, then so do I! Maybe I can work out some new magic to bring him/her home...

Maribelle: If he/she returns to us now, I might even consider making him/her tea. ...Myself. Do you hear that, Robin?! ME, making TEA! You should be honored!

Panne: Let us honor Robin's regard for his/her warren. He/She was a true taguel. And a true taguel would not leave family behind... I feel he's/she's out there!

Gaius: If Robin's anythin' like me, he/she won't check out just 'cause a job is done. Gotta collect on all the sweet rewards, right?

Cordelia: Too many times now have I watched loved ones give their lives for me... I must hold on to faith that this time will be different.

Gregor: Oy, Robin! You daring to make Gregor celebrate alone?! Gregor not rest until he drink you under table! Har har!

Nowi: *Sob* *sniff* Robin's not gone! He's/She's just...misplaced! I'll wait a thousand years for him/her if I have to!

Libra: Naga has a way of sending a ray of light into even the deepest darkness. May Robin find that light, just as he/she became that light for us.

Tharja: He/She had better march back here and try again! I only send people off on my terms! ...Or in a casket.

Olivia: There will be one less set of eyes on me as I dance... It feels wrong... Please come back, Robin! Please be out there somewhere!

Cherche: Minerva says she still feels Robin is of this world... Also that he/she smells delicious, but that's neither here nor there...

Henry: Hey, Robin, everyone's dying to see you alive. We're sick to death of death! That reminds me of a good one: two Risen, a wyvern, and a priest walk into a bar—

Lucina: We have won our future, but we are in debt to so many sad memories... I pray at least one of those sadnesses will yet be undone.

Say'ri: I swear my life and blade to defend this future you have won, Robin. If you can hear me, swear that you will help me do so!

Basilio: He/She did what he had to do. That's the mark of a true warrior! He'll/She'll be back. I'd bet my sweet brown arse on it!

Flavia: Bah! Leave it to Robin to take responsibility for all of us. If he/she cared for us that much, I hope he/she knows how we still need him/her.

Donnel: Thanks to you and the others, I was able to change... And I've got more changin' to do! I wants ya to see it.

Anna: You've done so much for me and all of my many, many sisters. You're an extra-special customer. ...I hope we meet again.

Owain: I feel a soul straight and true pulsing in the darkness. The hero...will return!

Inigo: No tears today. I know he'll/she'll be back. I'll just have to wait, and...try to smile...

Brady: I won't cry! He'll/she'll be back! I know it! And in the meantime, I'll write the finest song about him/her that ever was!

Kjelle: I am glad for our victory, but I wish it did not mean so sad a farewell... I still have so much to learn. Come back and teach me.

Cynthia: Now I know what it really means to be a hero... But heroes always come back to fight again...don't they?

Severa: Fool! Why did you sacrifice yourself?! I refuse to accept it! Return, Robin, or face my wrath!

Gerome: He/She showed me that I have a future. That destiny can be defeated. We have to believe that we can alter destiny once more and bring him/her back.

Morgan: Father/Mother... You can't leave me now. Not like this... I believe in you. Come back!

Yarne: All this death... No more! Please, you've... You've got to come back...

Laurent: The world is vast and full of potential unexplored! I shall devote myself to discovering that art which might reunite us.

Noire: No, this is all wrong... He/She can't be dead! He's/She's out there. We have to be patient and believe!

Nah: This is all wrong. We can't just leave Robin for dead. I'll wait until the end of time for his/her return!

Tiki: Robin put others before himself/herself. No one can question his/her character. But his/her work is not done. He/She is still needed here.

Gangrel: Damn you, Robin! I joined this fight to meet my end, not secure yours! I'll chase after you to the ends of hell...and if you're there, well I'll drag you back!

Walhart: How we die defines how we lived. This can be said of Robin. But I expect there are more pages yet to be written of a man/woman so nearly my equal.

Emmeryn: Robin... Come back... I need you... We...need you... This world...needs you...

Yen'fay: ...Robin. 'Twas a life lived grandly. ...... But was it lived to its end? I trow you are yet meant for more.

Aversa: What? Robin, dead before me? Preposterous! Return, my lord/lady, and you will have my service...

Priam: Robin could not have arrived at his/her decision easily. But I won't accept it. This can't be the end of his/her story...
