@Opening 
The Sacred Stones that defeated The Demon King radiated a constant and dazzling light. The Sacred Stones are the only power against the dark, the last hope of humanity. It is only natural that evil would seek to destroy the Sacred Stones... There can be no other force behind this attempt to gain the stones. A childhood friend appears before Ephraim.

@Flashback
Ephraim: How do you intend to use the Sacred Stones, Lyon? Do you really think you can tap into its power?
Lyon: Mm... My research isn't complete yet, but there's no mistaking the power the Sacred Stones contain. And the Stone of Grado seems especially responsive to my dark magic. I suppose it's because it contains both sacred and demonic properties. Regardless, if I can just press my studies a little harder... Well, I think I might be able to use it to heal my father's illness. If that works there's no telling how many other people I can help as well.
Eirika: Do you think this is wise? The power contained within the stones is beyond our understanding... My father tells me that the stones posses a power not to be trifled with.
Lyon: Uh-huh... Father MacGregor is also against it. That's why they still won't give me direct access to the Stone of Grado. For the time being, I've made do with the radiant energies surrounding it. They're nothing compared to the raw power of the stone itself, but... If I can show Father MacGregor some real progress, perhaps one day...
Ephraim: Using the Sacred Stones to study magic...
Lyon: Ephraim, Eirika, what do you two think? Using the divine power of the Sacred Stones in this way... You don't think it's a very good idea, do you?
Ephraim: ...It's just that I know nothing at all about magic. I would that there were some way I could help you, but I simply can't. But, Lyon, I've seen how hard you've worked to help others. I know how much you want the power to make others happy. I know these things, and because I know you, I trust your intentions.
Lyon: Ephraim...
Ephraim: If you hope to use the power of the Sacred Stones for good, I trust you can. I'm behind you all the way.
Eirika: I'agree with Ephraim entirely. You spend every night in the library, studying cures for your father's illness. The power of the Sacred Stones is too powerful to be used for personal gain. But you, Lyon... I think you'll be fine. You're the kindest person I know.
Lyon: Thanks, both of you. Hearing those words means a lot to me. Actually—and this hasn't been made public yet—but... I've already saved someone using the knowledge I've gleaned so far.
Ephraim: You have?
Lyon: Uh-huh... A while back, a fire ravaged Serafew, and a little girl got trapped in the flames. Her burns were terrible: not even healing staves were able to cure her injuries. But just a sliver of the stone's power restored her life and healed her wounds. We saved the that girl's life, Ephraim! Oh, if you could have seen the tears of joy in her mother's eyes!
Ephraim: You really did it, huh? You are special, Lyon. Congratulations!
Lyon: Well.. thanks. But there's still so much more to be done. I am happy, though. To be honest, I just want to be able to help people. I want to put the ancient magics to use for common good... That's how I feel.
Eirika: Lyon...
Lyon: And as my research moves forward, I'll be able to do much more, too. We have only the barest understanding of how dark magic operates. Maybe we can use it not only to heal wounds, but also to stop diseases... What if we can read the future, predict disasters, move mountains!?
Eirika: Hold on, Lyon. You can't take too much on yourself all at once. What good is helping people, if you sacrifice yourself to do it?
Lyon: Oh... Yes, of course. Sorry. I got carried away.
Ephraim: You have a soft heart, Lyon. I bet you haven't taken any real time off at all. So this is what we're going to do. Today, we're going into the city. And you're coming with us, Lyon.
Lyon: What? But, Ephraim, you've got a history report due.
Ephraim: We're taking today off. C'mon, let's go.
Lyon: Bu-but, Ephraim...
Eirika: It's just one day, and I won't tell anyone. Won't it be fun for the three of us to spend a day in the city?
Lyon: Ephraim, Eirika... Thanks so much. I'm lucky to have the two of you as friend.

@Intro
Ephraim: We have the Stone of Renais. The final Sacred Stone is in Rausten
Eirika: L'Arachel, can you tell us anything about the Stone of Rausten?
L'Arachel: Naturally! As Rausten's very own princess, I know a thing or two about our stone. The palace reliquary currently houses of Sacred Stone. Follow me, I'll take you there
Innes: I sent the Frelian army ahead before us. They should be en route to Rausten. If we hurry, we can join up with them at the banks of the Narube River.

Ally Soldier: Do not falter! Show them the might of Frelia!

Woman: Lady S-Syrene... the enemy is headed this way.
Syrene: Are you serious? Grado's been defeated, and still they fought on? And they're tough.
Old man: You Frelian fools have been wiped out by those guys... Oh, no... Now we're finished as well.
Syrene: Everyone, please remain calm. If you panic and flee, the enemy will simply surround you. If you remain here and don't move I promise to protect you all.
Woman: Lady Syrene...

Eirika: Brother! Look there!
Ephraim: A skirmish!
Innes: Is that Syrene? What's going on? We must go to her aid.
L'Arachel: Everyone, hold! Something evil is afoot...

Lyon: ......
Ephraim: Lyon?!
Lyon: Eirika... Ephraim...
Eirika: Lyon... Where have you been all this...
Ephraim: Eirika, stop!
Eirika: Brother?
Ephraim: Lyon... We met recently in Grado Keep, right? Do you remember what you told me then?
Lyon: ...... Of course, I remember. What of it?
Ephraim: You...
Lyon: I can repeat it for you now if you would like. The ruin of Renais? The murder of your father? It was all my doing. I, Lyon, prince of Grado, made it happen.
Eirika: Lyon... You lie! That can't be...
Ephraim: Don't be fooled, Eirika. Keep your guard up. That's now Lyon.
Lyon: ...... What amusing things come babbling out of your mouth. You always thought of Lyon as kind, gentle, and weak, didn't you? Admit it.
Ephraim: No! Lyon, Eirika, and I were friends. There were things we kept to ourselves of course, but we shared so much. And no matter what happened, no matter how much time passed... We're still friends. Lyon would never betray us. Not in a million years. You're not Lyon.
Lyon: ...I see. So I have no reason to continue hiding my true identity, do I?
Ephraim: None!
Lyon: You are correct. This body no longer belongs to your young Lyon. I devoured his pathetic heart ages ago.
Ephraim: You monster! Who are you?!
Lyon: Do you really not know me? What a poorly educated prince. Think about it. Remember the legends of your pitiful kind... What was sealed within the Stone of Grado? What is the name of terror?
Eirika: No... It can't be!
L'Arachel: It's as we feared after all. That can only be...
Ephraim: The great adversary of antiquity... The Demon King...
Lyon: That's right. You know to fear my name. Prince Lyon was a weakling. Now, he is dead.
Eirika: That can't be...
Lyon: Prince Ephraim of Renais... You hold a Sacred Stone. Give it to me. I have no wish to see a warrior die a pitiful death beneath my feet. Bend your knee. If you pledge services to me, I may yet let you live.
Ephraim: Do you take me for a fool?
Lyon: You've made your choice, have you? A poor choice... But it does afford me a chance to show you something special. A force no human flesh can withstand. A horror beyond words. A power that will place this sad world under my dominion. I am the Demon King... Behold my might.

Ephraim: Lyon... We met recently in Grado Keep, right? Do you remember what you told me then? You told me that this was all your doing, that you had started this war.
Lyon: What? Ephraim... Why are you so angry? We haven't seen each-other in so long... What's happened?
Eirika: Lyon...
Ephraim: Wait, Eirika! You said it yourself. Lyon must be under the control of someone or something else.
Eirika: Don't be ridiculous! There must be something wrong with you, Ephraim! Lyon is one of our dearest and closest friends, remember? He told me that, no matter what happened, he was still on our side. Isn't that right, Lyon?
Lyon: Yes, Eirika. Of course it is. So, please, come here... Closer... Ah! Gah.. ahh... Uuuuhhaaah... ga...
Eirika: Lyon?!
Lyon: Gah.... rrrrraaa... Ev... ahh... evil...  Stay... back... Eirika...
Eirika: What?
Lyon: Get away... from me... quickly... If you... don't... I will surely... ...destroy you...
Eirika: What? Lyon...
Lyon: Flee... qui-quickly... GO! Gah...... Aaaaaaarrrrggggghhh!
Eirika: Ly-Lyon. Hold on! What is it? What's happening?!
Lyon: ... ... ...

Lyon: Hi. It's been a while since I saw you two last, hasn't it?
Eirika: Lyon? Is that really you speaking, Lyon?
Ephraim: Stay back, Eirika. Keep your guard up. That's not Lyon.
Eirika: Uh...
Lyon: I'm not Lyon? That's rich. A masterpiece. You always thought Lyon was kind, gentle, and weak, didn't you? Admit it.
Ephraim: No! Lyon, Eirika, and I were friends. There were things we kept to ourselves, of course, but we shared so much. And no matter what happened, no matter how much time passed... We're still friends. Lyon would never betray us. Not in a million years. You're not Lyon.
Lyon: ...Hmph. ...Looks like I was wrong to disregard the value of human emotions.
Eirika: What?!
Lyon: I've had my fun pretending to be human, but the need for charades has passed. You are correct. This body no longer belongs to your young Lyon. I devoured his pathetic heart ages ago.
Ephraim: You monster! Who are you?!
Lyon: Do you really not know me? What a poorly educated prince. Think about it. Remember the legends of your pitiful kind... What was sealed within the Stone of Grado? What is the name of terror?
Eirika: No... It can't be!
L'Arachel: It's as we feared after all. That can only be...
Ephraim: The great adversary of antiquity... The Demon King...
Lyon: Heh heh... ha hahahahah! Lyon... Lyon... O prince of misery... Come out. Be not shy... This body is lost to you... It is mine to compel...
Eirika: What's going...
Lyon: Your dreams, Lyon... I am about to make them come true for you. I am about to crush Prince Ephraim and take Princess Eirika for my own. Isn't this all that you've ever prayed for, young fool of a prince?
Ephraim: Ah!
Lyon: Rejoice, Lyon. The time has come... Ephraim, the man you envy... Eirika, the woman you desire... I will now grant you all of your darkest wishes!

@Recruit-Talk 
%Innes,Syrene
Innes: Syrene!
Syrene: Prince Innes...is it... Ah... It really is you, isn't it, Prince Innes? Being rescued by you... It's like a dream...
Innes: Syrene? I need a status report.
Syrene: Oh... Oh, yes! Please forgive me! The Frelian troops we dispatched were ambushed and decimated. My squad is all that remains.
Innes: So many dead... You can rest easy now, Syrene. I'm here. Victory is assured. Let's go.
Syrene: Yes, sir... Prince Innes.

%Tana,Syrene
Tana: Syrene! Are you all right?
Syrene: Princess Tana! You must stay back. This place is dangerous!
Tana: No! I won't let you die! Hold on, I'm coming to help you at once!
Syrene: Princess Tana... You've grown so much. Very well. I'm yours to command, my lady.

%Vanessa,Syrene
Vanessa: Commander Syrene! Are you all right?
Syrene: Vanessa. What are you doing here...
Vanessa: I'm here with Prince Innes! We arrived to join the fray! We'll take over now. There's no need for you to exhaust yourself.
Syrene: Understood. The chain of command must be clear, though, so I'll take orders from your commander. Pass this message to whoever leads your forces, will you?
Vanessa: Right away!
Syrene: A moment, Vanessa.
Vanessa: What is it?
Syrene: You've matured since I last saw you last. And... you've grown beautiful as well.
Vanessa: ...Sister...

@Boss 
Lyon: Do you challenge me? You humans are so inconstant. You've forgotten what it is to fear me.

%Ephraim,Lyon
Ephraim: Where's Lyon? What have you done with our friend?! ANSWER ME!
Lyon: ...... Heh heh... How foolish. The one you seek is already dead. I have cast him into the abyss from which I crawled. The weakling is gone. Only the Demon King remains!
Ephraim: Grr... Monster!

%Eirika,Lyon
Eirika: Please, Lyon! You must stop! I...I don't want to fight you!
Lyon: ...... The cries of children. Away with you, insects, if you wish not to die.

@End 
Lyon: Not yet... I have not the strength. But I am the Demon King... The world will be mine, as it was in the ancient days. Injuries such as those are not enough to stop me...
Ephraim: Demon King!
Lyon: Come, Ephraim. You should follow me. If you've the strength to defeat me, that is...
Ephraim: We will not let you flee! After him, Eirika! We have to find where he's gone. Search everywhere! I can't allow him to desecrate my friend's body any longer!
Innes: Ephraim.
Ephraim: Innes?
Innes: There's no need to panic. The soldiers are following Prince Lyon's trail. Our trackers are excellent. They'll know his whereabouts momentarily.
Ephraim: Ah... Good point. Well made.
Innes: By the way, there's something I need to speak with you about. The messenger I sent to Frelia returned not long ago. She bought a package I'd request: Frelia's Sacred Twins.
Ephraim: You have the Sacred Twins?
Innes: Yes. Frelia may have lost her Sacred Stone... However, it seems the Sacred Twin relics remain undisturbed. I have bought them here. Behold!
Ephraim: Incredible...
Innes: Frelia's Sacred Twins. Nidhogg, the Serpent Bow, and Vidofnir, the Winged Lance. I want you to take them.
Ephraim: But these are Frelia's weapons. You should hold on to them.
Innes: No, I entrust them to you. You're the leader of this army. Use them as you will.
Ephraim: Understood. I'll make sure they wind up in worthy hands. Thank you, Innes. This helps.
Innes: Don't thank me. We're fighting for the same thing here: victory.

Woman: Lady Syrene! Thank you! We all owe you our gratitude...
Syrene: No, it wasn't my doing. We prevailed because of superior leadership.
Ephraim: No, I...
Old man: We owe you a debt of gratitude that can never be repaid. It's not much. but please accept this staff as a small token.
Woman: And accept our thanks. We won't forget what you've done for us.

Lyon: Urr... Bah... Can't hold up to such as this? Accursed human flesh is too brittle, too weak...
Eirika: Hold, Lyon!
Lyon: Now, I know your strength. It is time to leave. I sacrifice this flesh and return to my body of old. This does not end. The world will drown again in darkness.
/***EOF***/
@Opening 
Carcino has betrayed Frelia and joined forces with Grado. Carcino’s troops stop Prince Innes, blocking his way to Jehanna. With soldiers occupying the road forward and back, he is trapped in a hopeless situation. Eirika rushes to the prince’s aid.

@Intro 
Vigarde: General Glen of the Grado Imperial Army, also known as the Sunstone...
Glen: Yes...
Vigarde: Your orders. Capture the leader of the rebel army in Carcino. Capture Eirika.
Glen: Eirika... Do you mean the princess of Renais?
Vigarde: Eirika invaded Carcino. She massacred the citizens of Port Kiris. Then, she fled south. Glen. Go. Crush the rebels who brought ruin to Carcino.
Glen: ...Understood, sire.
 
Glen: ......
Cormag: What did the emperor say, Brother?
Glen: I’ve been ordered to kill the princess of Renais. Cormag, I want you to remain here in the capital. I’ll go alone.
Cormag: If that’s what you want, Brother, so be it. But you seem troubled... Don’t tell me you’re concerned about fighting the princess of a ruined land!
Glen: ...Hm... I never was able to slip anything past you, little brother. You’re right. This duty falls heavily on my shoulders, more then any other.
Cormag: Tell me, Brother, do you know this princess?
Glen: Yes. When Renais and Grado were still close... I met the girl– I met Eirika only once. We spoke briefly, but I felt she was a woman of great kindness. I cannot bring myself to believe Princess Eirika is evil. I cannot.
Cormag: ...Glen. The emperor has ordered–
Glen: There’s the rub, Cormag. That’s it exactly. His Majesty has never spoken a falsehood in all the time I’ve served him. And as a servant of the empire, I am duty bound to obey his orders. But I can see no reason to think Princess Eirika’s heart is any less gentle now.
 
Valter: What are these cowardly mutterings? It is because you three generals are weak that we others must work so hard. And yet you get the honor of killing the girl. How I long to do your duty for you!
Glen: Rrrr! Valter, you treacherous swine...
Valter: What’s this? Is this how you speak toward your peer knights of the realm? Lest you’ve forgotten, I, too, am a general–the same rank as you.
Glen: You wretch. You were cast out from the army for mistreating civilians. What lies have you told to receive pardon and reinstatement at the same tome?
Valter: Our beloved emperor felt my skills were needed, and his word is law. His majesty has earned my sincerest and most undying gratitude. And then we have you three. Duessel, Selena, and you... The three of you have proven to be unreliable time and time again. We were brought in to plug the holes, don’t you see? You ought to thank me, Glen!
Cormag: Valter! If you dare insult my brother further...
Valter: Come now, Cormag. And what would you do to me if I did? Would you fight me? Here? Would you show such disloyalty to the emperor?
Cormag: ...
Glen: Peace, Cormag. We are His Majesty’s men. We will honor his commands. Mark my words, Valter: your crimes are neither forgotten nor forgiven.
Valter: Hmph...
 
Gerik: Prince Innes. What do you say? Can you continue?
Innes: Yes, of course. Do you believe this is enough to make me give up? I am surprised you mercenaries haven’t turned and fled, though.
Gerik: Naw. You see, Gerik’s Mercenaries takes its name from me, Gerik. I’m the chief here. If I quit while our employer still fought on, they’d want a new name, you follow me? So... What’s the plan?
Innes: Same as before. We remain surrounded. They’re not going to allow us simply to walk out of here... I send a messenger off with news of our plight. However, even on the wings of a pegasus knight, Frelia is days away. We can expect no help from them.
Gerik: So we tighten our belts and survive, is that it? Or would you rather quit this place and rest in comfort?
Innes: Surrender? I’m the prince of Frelia. I don’t know the meaning of the words. The fate of the world rides on my shoulders, and I’ll make it to Jehanna. Even if I have to crawl to do it.
Gerik: Now, that makes me feel better. If you’re so determined, we may all live a little while longer...
Tethys: Hey, Chief, Prince.
Gerik: What is it, Tethys?
Tethys: I’ve got bad news...and then I’ve got worse news.
Gerik: What’s the bad news?
Tethys: We’ve no more weapons in reserve. What you’re holding is what we’ve got. Once those are gone, there won’t be much fight left in us.
Gerik: That is bad news... Well? What’s the worse news?
Tethys: They’ve begun to move. They’re going to attack again. Looks like they’re sending up the whole lot of ’em this time.
Innes: ...... Right. You two, you’re done here. Discharged. Fired. Whatever. You can surrender or flee. The choice is yours.
Gerik: What?
Innes: I’m the one they’re after. Throw down your weapons, and you’ll walk away alive. I don’t need you here. You’ll only be in my way. Who knows? You filthy sellswords’ll probably sell me out anyway.
Tethys: Hold on there! That’s not true, and you know it!
Gerik: Peace, Tethys. Hey, Prince. What are you going to do?
Innes: I’m going to get out of here on my own. I’ll break to the south and escape into the mountains.
Gerik: That ain’t gonna be easy. How you plan on doing that?
Innes: I’m not telling you. I’ve no idea when you’ll decide to betray me. Go on. Get out of here. I’d rather do this alone.
Gerik: Sounds like you’re trying to make sure you’re the only one who dies.
Innes: ...... Fool. I’ve no intention of dying. But there can be no false hope of reinforcements riding in to save the day. You and I are not the same. You’re a commoner, and I’m Frelia’s heir. We of noble birth do not shirk the duties to which we are born.
Gerik: ......
Innes: What are you waiting for? You may go.
Gerik: Well played, milord. I’ve always loved the melodrama of martyrdom... There’s no way I can abandon you after that fine performance. I’m staying with you. To the end.
Innes: To the– What are you saying? You dare ignore the orders of the one who’s paying your wages?!
Gerik: Tethys, I want you to go and surrender. Give my regards to Ewan and Marisa.
Tethys: Don’t be ridiculous. I’m not going anywhere. Now would the two of you kindly stop acting like such...men? And you! You’ve already fired us. You can’t order us to leave now.
Innes: Unbelievable... And you people call yourselves mercenaries? I thought you fought for money, not for duty.
Gerik: Yeah, that’s one of the rules. Guess we’re lousy mercenaries, eh? Now let’s get thinking. We still need a plan to get us all out of here alive. You’re supposed to be a good tactician, so I figure I won’t die easily. Tell us what to do, Prince. We’ll follow your orders.
Innes: ...... Hm. Very well. I’ll see what I can do to avoid getting us filled with arrows.
Tethys: Ah... Say, Prince. If, by some miracle, aid were to come, from what direction would it arrive?
Innes: ...From the north. But there’s little or no hope of that. Even if Frelia were to send us aid, they would not arrive until...
Tethys: This may be good news... Then again, it may be more bad news. There. On that northern mountain path... Someone’s coming.
 
Eirika: Prince Innes!
Seth: Princess Eirika, the prince is surrounded by the mercenary armies of Carcino. He looks vastly outnumbered. I doubt he can hold out much longer.
Eirika: I can see that. Let’s hurry!

@Battle 
Pablo: Heh heh... My plan to get rid of Klimt has yielded some unexpected fruit. The head of Frelia’s Prince Innes will make a fine gift to Grado.
Soldier: Lord Pablo, Prince Innes and his men have taken refuge in a mountain stronghold. Do we have your permission to finish them off?
Pablo: Yes. Flush the prince out and cut him down. We’ll find Klimt later and roast his old bones as well. Heh heh heh...
 
Man: Lord Klimt, Pablo’s troops are moving toward the stronghold. It looks like they’re planning on chasing down Prince Innes and his men.
Klimt: Pablo, you mad, reckless imbecile... If Prince Innes dies here, the bond between Carcino and Frelia is sundered forever. Carcino will be nothing more than a vassal paying tribute to Grado... We must find some way to aid Prince Innes.
Man: Wait, my lord Klimt! Pablo is after you as well. If you reveal yourself here...
Klimt: Ahh... May fortune keep you safe, Prince Innes...
 
Soldier: Hey! You’re up! You’re getting paid a lot more than us common soldiers. Time you earned your gold!
Marisa: I hear you. Where do I start killing?
Soldier: Th-that way! The Frelian troops! Don’t point that blade in our direction!
Marisa: I’ll do what I can. No promises. Good day.
 
Soldier: Whew... So that’s Marisa, the Crimson Flash of Gerik’s Mercenaries... She’s a beauty, but I’ll keep my distance...and keep my head.

@Recruit-Talk 
%Tana,Innes
Tana: Brother!
Innes: Tana?!? What? How did... What are you doing here?
Tana: I came with Eirika. Wait here, Brother. It’s my turn to protect you.
Innes: Stop playing the soldier, Tana. You will return to the palace at once.
Tana: I will not! Eirika, Ephraim, and you are all risking so much... I can’t sit at home and watch! I have to do something to help.
Innes: Tana... ...We’ll talk about this later. For now, we join forces with Eirika.
Tana: Thank you, Brother.
 
%Eirika,Innes
Eirika: Prince Innes! Are you well?
Innes: Eirika... Is that you?
Eirika: We’ve come to aid you. You must be exhausted. Please fall back and rest. We’ll take care of these dogs.
Innes: I cannot allow that. I will not run and hide while a woman protects me... We will continue the fight. You can join us.
Eirika: If that’s how you want it. Let’s go then.
Innes: ...Eirika, a moment.
Eirika: Prince?
Innes: I would give you my thanks. You, the princess of Renais, came to my aid... ...I am in your debt.
 
%Innes,Gerik 
Innes: Reinforcements have arrived, Gerik.
Gerik: Lucky us, eh? Good thing we held out as long as we did.
Innes: That was your doing. Thank you.
Gerik: Don’t let your guard down now, Prince. There are still enemies to fight, and it’d be such a shame to die now.
Innes: I agree completely. Let’s go.
 
%Gerik,Tethys 
Gerik: Hey, Tethys. Looks like help is on the way.
Tethys: Really? Perhaps faith is a good thing. I’ve never had much before, but perhaps good things do happen to good people.
Gerik: Good things? I like the sound of that. What do you suppose might come my way?
Tethys: Ha ha... I wonder...
 
%Innes,Tethys 
Innes: Reinforcements have arrived, Tethys.
Tethys: Really? Perhaps faith is a good thing. I’ve never had much before, but perhaps good things do happen to good people.
Innes: Faith had nothing to do with this. Let’s go. We must join them.
Tethys: What a strange nobleman.
 
%Tethys,Gerik 
Tethys: Say, Chief. I’ve got good news, and I’ve got better news.
Gerik: Eh? What’s the good news?
Tethys: Within our band of mercenaries... There are two women enamored of you.
Gerik: Huh? What’re you talking about? You a fortune-teller now? And what’s the better news?
Tethys: Help has arrived. Looks like we may survive after all.

@Visit 
Young Lady: Elder Pablo used his fortune to build his own private army. Now he’s using it to wrest control of Carcino from the council’s hands... Please...help Lord Klimt, so that he can help us.
 
Man: You know we have no king in the Republic of Carcino. We’re governed instead by a council of elders. It’s a lot better than any stuffy, old monarchy, I can tell you that. You see, anyone can be a leader in Carcino if he’s old enough. Of course, maybe that’s why the country’s in such a mess right now.
 
Young Man: I’ve heard that Prince Innes of Frelia is a fantastic tactician. Grado took Renais with no trouble, but Frelia still has yet to fall. They say it’s because Prince Innes has spies reporting every move the empire makes. At the same time, all enemy spies in Frelia are exposed and executed swiftly. That means that none of Frelia’s secrets are ever reported back to the empire. I’ve never met Prince Innes, but he doesn’t sound like a man you’d want as an enemy.

%Gerik,Marisa
Gerik: Is that you, Marisa?
Marisa: Chief.
Gerik: What a mess... Looks like the guild bungled. They’re usually diligent about making sure this sort of thing doesn’t happen. But here we are, two people of the same troop, working for opposite sides.
Marisa: What should we do?
Gerik: Aye, well, that’s a good question... As a mercenary, your loyalty should always lie with the person paying your wages. You decide. We can cross blade if you want, but I’d rather you retreat. ‘Course, if you betray your employer, you’ll soil your sterling name.
Marisa: C’mon, Chief. What would YOU like me to do?
Gerik: Well, that’s easy. I’d like you to come over and join my side.
Marisa: Right. Done.
Gerik: Ho-hold on... Is that it? Just like that? You know what this will do to your reputation, right?
Marisa: Uh-huh.
 
@Boss
Pablo: No one can withstand the might of Grado... Logic dictates we join now or be subjugated later. I made the rational decision. The only decision!
 
Pablo: Urrgh... N-no. I cannot die when there is such wealth to be had... Re-retreat! Mercenaries, to me!

@End
Valter: ...I’ve found you, Eirika. Seems you’re as skilled as reports say. This is going to be fun. Yes, yes, yes. I do so love strong women.
Soldier: Shall we attack, General Valter?
Valter: No, we’ll pass on dessert for now. Allow them to escape. We’re leaving.
 
Eirika: Prince Innes, are you well?
Innes: Eirika...I’m sorry for troubling you.
Eirika: No, it was no trouble.
Klimt: Oh, Prince Innes! Thank goodness, you’re unharmed!
 
Eirika: Who are you?
Klimt: Oh, where are my manners? I am a member of Carcino’s Council of Elders. My name is Klimt.
Eirika: A council member?
Innes: So you’re one of the traitors who ordered–
Klimt: P-please, please! I have no intention of opposing you or quarreling with you. I, too, have been marked for death by Pablo...
Eirika: What is this all about?
Klimt: It’s a shameful tale... Carcino is a nation divided. As you know, Carcino has no king but is ruled by a council. But now the council has broken apart into factions mired in discord...
Eirika: Factions... You’re saying that the whole of Carcino has not betrayed Frelia?
Klimt: Correct. The moderate factions prefer to preserve our alliance with Frelia. Pablo’s faction wishes to endear us to Grado, to surrender us to their armies. Once Pablo realized he couldn’t ply us with brides, he began to have us assassinated. Those of us who remain have taken refuge underground. We oppose him where we can. If you hadn’t shown up, I’m not certain I would still be breathing...
Innes: I do recall enemy troops combing this area when I arrived... They were searching for you, is that it?
Klimt: Pablo has usurped rule of the council. We had no choice but to hide. Not all of Carcino’s council has gone over to Grado’s side, though... You must believe me–the whole of Carcino does not believe as Pablo does.
Innes: ...I see.
Eirika: Lord Klimt... I understand the hardships you’ve endured. I am pleased to hear all of Carcino is not our foe.
Klimt: I will depart at once for Frelia to explain our circumstance to the king. I think it is best if you return to Frelia as well. Pablo has considerable wealth, and he commands a vast mercenary force. I’m sure he’ll send more of them this way as soon as he is able.
 
Gerik: Prince Innes. Tethys and I are staying with you. Is that gonna work?
Innes: Yes, I would appreciate the help. Starting now, you’ve got a new contract, though–the pay’s double. If the two of you hadn’t stayed with me back there, I would not have survived. Gerik, Tethys... Thank you. You have my gratitude.
Tethys: Tell me something, Prince. Did you get...er...hit on the head during that last skirmish?
Innes: ...That’s unkind. My neck is not so stiff that I cannot show gratitude. I would ask for your continued support in the days ahead.
Eirika: We both ask for your help.
Gerik: We’ve got a deal. Let’s keep each other alive.
 
Ewan: Ah! There you are, Sister.
Tethys: Ewan! How is it... What are you doing here? I told you to wait in the inn and behave yourself, didn’t I?
Ewan: Yeah, but you always run off and disappear. It’s not fair. I want to have adventures, too.
Tethys: You are such an imp... I am not out here running about having fun, you know?
Ewan: I know. That’s why I came to see you. I can help. My teacher finally got around to teaching me some magic. Check this out.
Tethys: H-hey! Knock it off! You shouldn’t be using magic here!
Ewan: Well, I just thought maybe I could help you work is all. I can protect you now, sis. Come on, take me with you. I don’t wanna stay in that inn anymore.
Tethys: Oh...all right. I’ll go speak and speak to the Chief and Princess Eirika. Don’t wander off while I’m gone.
Ewan: Yahoo!
 
Seth: Princess Eirika, Prince Innes. I think we should follow the advice we’ve been given and return to Frelia. Continuing on through Carcino like this is too great a risk to your safety.
Innes: The peril is self-evident. However, I have to reach Jehanna, and the only way is through Carcino. If I don’t hurry, nations will fall, one after another, to Grado’s hunger.
Eirika: Innes is right. And the road to Rausten leads me through both Carcino and Jehanna. However, pressing on will only invite more mercenary attacks.
 
Ewan: Hey, I’ve got an answer. I know a way that leads over the mountains straight to Jehanna! Want me to guide you?
Eirika: ...And who might you be?
 
Tethys: Ewan! Shush! You know better than to interrupt people when they’re talking. I’m so sorry. Please let me take my brother out of the way. Come on, Ewan. Let’s go.
Eirika: No, no–wait, please. Do you really know a route through the mountains?
Ewan: That’s what I said. At the top of that mountain, there’s a village named Caer Pelyn. That’s where my teacher lives. I’m sure he’ll lead you through if you ask him nicely.
Innes: What is your teacher’s name?
Ewan: My teacher? His name is Saleh.
Innes: Saleh... I’ve heard that name on the lips of Frelia’s spy network lately. He’s a powerful wielder of magic who has been fighting bandits and monsters. The spies mentioned something about a Caer Pelyn, if I remember.
Eirika: What do you think?
Innes: Hm. If my spies are accurate, this Saleh is someone we can trust.
Eirika: Very well, Ewan. Will you take us to meet your teacher?
Tethys: Are you sure you can do this, Ewan?
Ewan: Not a problem! All right, everyone. See if you can keep up!

/***EOF***/
@Opening 
With her bracelet recovered, Eirika sets out with renewed determination. Passing through the ancient forest Za’ha brings them close to Grado’s border. As they near the town of Serafew, Eirika’s fears are assuaged by the lack of troops. But never-before-seen terrors crawl in the shadows of the trees.

@Intro 
Seth: We’re approaching Serafew, at the border of Renais and Grado. Once we cross, we’ll be in Grado... Renvall won’t be much farther.
Eirika: That is, assuming we can cross the border without mishap... Oh! Look! Over there!
 
Eirika: Those strange figures... What...What are they? Are they...human? I’ve never seen anything like it. What could they be?
 
Artur: What have we done to deserve the trials before us? What is happening to us? How could such abominations walk out lands while the Sacred Stones protect us?
Lute: ......
Artur: Lute, please, it’s dangerous outside the walls. Stay here in the village.
Lute: Those are revenants, aren’t they? They were the vanguard of the Demon King in the days of darkness. The Tome of Nazania describes them in chapter 2, section 7, paragraph 8.
Artur: You know of them?
Lute: Duh! I’m a prodigy. I can recall almost everything I see or hear. According to the book, revenants attack using razor-sharp claws. Sounds painful, wouldn’t you say?
Artur: Yes, er, well... Be that as it may, I must go aid those travelers outside. You should stay here within the safety of the village.
Lute: Very well. I don’t mind staying here. In fact, it seems that smarter choice.
 
Lute: Magic is far more powerful than any monster’s claws. The thickest hide and the strongest armor are useless against magic’s power. Yes, I supposed I could have studied swords, but only magic is worthy of me. Even if this village were to be assaulted by monsters, I could defend it perfectly.
 
Artur: Travelers, you must listen to me! The ancient forest of Za’ha is dangerous. Head south and pass through this place before the fiends surround you!
Eirika: Who are you?
Artur: My name is Artur. The temple has assigned me the task of cleansing the forest of these...things. There are so many of the fiends, though. I wonder if I stand much chance alone. So if you would, please flee now while you have the chance.
Eirika: Fiends? You’re not talking about the same fiends that served the ancient Demon King? That can’t be right... They’re nothing but legends and fairy tales...
Artur: Yes, I felt the same say when I heard. And yet here they are. This place is filled with them. I wonder how far they’re spread... Surely they’re not in Renais alone.
Eirika: But..why are they here? How?
Seth: Beware, Your Highness! Something approaches!
 
Artur: Please allow me to deal with this. Evil shade! May the blessed light drive you from this land!
 
Seth: We ought to help. He can’t fight them all alone. Do you have orders?

@Battle 
Artur: One of my companions is in that village to the south. If you can get there swiftly, I implore you to watch over her safety.

@Visit 
Man: Do you see that old snag to the south of here? Bet it would make a handy bridge if you could knock it over. Take a weapon to it and give it a few good whacks. That should do it. Here, take this and give it a try. It ought to do the trick.

@Battle 
L’Arachel: Oh, my! Those travelers are being besieged by the agents of evil!
Dozla: Ha ha ha! Right you are, Lady L’Arachel!
L’Arachel: I cannot allow this to happen! Come! We must charge down these cliffs and rush to their aid!
Rennac: We charge down these cliffs, and the only thing we’ll be rushing to is death. How about we find us a nice, gentle path down, hm?
L’Arachel: Ah...Yes, well...Let us hurry nonetheless. I simply cannot abide those wicked beasts running amok!

@Recruit-Visit 
Artur: Lute, help has arrived.
Lute: ......
Artur: Lute?
Lute: Your flesh shows no sign of putrefaction. It seems you’re not a revenant.
Artur: Well, I should hope not! I wanted you to know help has arrived. Please be patient a bit longer...
Lute: No, no. I insist on joining you in combat. I’ve been reading up on these revenants. They are, quite simply, no match for me. I am superior after all.

Lute: ......
Eirika: Hm?
Lute: Your flesh shows no sign of putrefaction. It seems you’re not a revenant. I’ve decided to join you in battle now. My name is Lute. I’m a mage of superior wisdom and rare ability. I’ve been reading up on these revenants. They are, quite simply, no match for me. I am superior after all.

@End 
Seth: We’ve killed all the monsters. Still, we’d best burn the bones to ash to be sure they don’t return.
Eirika: I still can’t believe what we’ve been fighting here... I’d thought those fiends nothing more than myth and legend.
Seth: Those revenants are said to be the least of the dark creatures. And yet, the weakest of them could outmatch any normal man. We cannot take this enemy lightly.
Lute: Oh, yes. There are much worse then those revenants and the entombed... Let’s see, there’s the bonewalkers, mauthe doogs, gargoyles, baels... Why, I’ll bet you just about any creature of lore could be walking again. Yes, we’re in for some trouble. Even my fabulous power may not be enough.
Artur: O divine light, show me... Is this a sign of dark days to come?
Eirika: By all that’s holy, what is happening?
Seth: Princess Eirika, perhaps it would be wise to return to Frelia and regroup. Pressing forward seems foolish in light of recent events. We cannot face both Grado’s forces and more of those terrible things.
Eirika: Seth, I follow your point, and nothing would please me more then running for safety. But what of my brother? He and his men are still trapped in the same situation we are. I know full well that I may be leading us into even greater danger, but... Please try to understand.
Seth: I do, my princess, and I vow to see you through this safely.
 
L’Arachel: Aha! Foul creatures, beware! I, L’Arachel, bestow upon you the honor at banishment at my blessed hands!
Eirika: ......
L’Arachel: Oh...Where are the monsters?
Eirika: Well, we just finished...
L’Arachel: Ah, glad tidings indeed! The heavens must be rejoicing! I am.. a tad disappointed however. After all, I did rush all the way here to show you the splendor of my might.
Dozla: Gwah ha ha! It’s a real shame, innit, Lady L’Arachel?!
Rennac: What’s shameful is the way you drag us around the countryside.
Eirika: Pardon me, but...who are you?
L’Arachel: Me? Since you ask, please allow me to introduce myself. It is I, the true light and glory of the sacred realm of Rausten...
Dozla: Stop! Lady L’Arachel, you mustn’t continue! You cannot reveal your true identity here!
L’Arachel: Oh, yes, you’re right. Oh, I get so careless sometimes! Now, I must ride off in anonymity. Oh, how beautifully romantic!
Eirika: Uh... Right.
L’Arachel: Fare thee well, strangers. Perhaps our paths will cross again. Come, Dozla! Rennac! We ride!
Dozla: Gwah ha ha! Let’s go, Rennac!
Rennac: All right, all right.
 
Eirika: ...What was that about?

/***EOF***/
@Opening 
An ominous wave of dark creatures washes over the continent... Eirika’s journey to find her brother, Ephraim, grows ever more perilous. Still, she presses on despite the danger. Her will is strong. The town of Serafew, located on the border of Renais and Grado. The people of both countries have long used the town as a meeting place. It stands as testimony to the friendship the two nations have shared these many years. Now, however, Serafew is teeming with Grado troops.

@Intro 
Joshua: Well, well. There’s an arena in this town. Perfect. My pocket’s feeling a bit light. Say, is that a cleric? It is! And a gorgeous one at that.
 
Joshua: Something amiss, Sister? You look flustered.
Natasha: Ahhh! P-pardon me.
Joshua: No, pardon me! I never meant to startle you. May I offer my apologies....
Natasha: No, it’s not necessary... It was my fault. Excuse me, I must be going... Good day to you.
 
Joshua: ...And there she goes. Not my lucky day... She was quite the beauty, too. Ah, such is life. I think I’ve time still to visit the arena, though.
 
Glen: Captain Saar of the Serafew Border Guard. How fare you? I bring orders from His Majesty. Rumor has it that Princess Eirika of Renais is making her way to Grado. You are to find her and to place her in custody immediately.
Saar: Yes, sir!
Glen: One more thing... A traitor to the empire has fled Castle Grado. We’ve received reports she is hiding somewhere here in Serafew. I don’t care if you have to tear this town apart. Find the turncoat.
Saar: Yes, sir, General Glen! If she resists, do we have permission to execute her?
Glen: ...Yes. Permission granted.
Saar: Understood! Grado’s will be done. The Grado Empire will repay the debt of betrayal with blood!
Glen: ...His Majesty relies upon you, Captain. Be sure his trust is not misplaced. That is all.
Saar: Yes, sir!
 
Glen: Such loyalty to the crown. If only I could hold such conviction in the righteousness of our emperor.
Cormag: Something troubling you, Brother?
Glen: No...Pay no mind to me. Come, Cormag. Let’s go. From here, we ride northeast, back to the fort.
Cormag: Very well.
 
Eirika: It’s been so long since I last visited Serafew. My brother and I used to pass through here en route to Grado. I remember the harmony in which the people of both countries lived. No walls divided our borders. No soldiers stood guard in high towers. The border town... It was to me a symbol of the trust between Grado and Renais.
Seth: ...And now, it is firmly under the thumb of Grado’s emperor.
Eirika: The peace I remember in this city... It seems like something from another time. It seems lost now... Forever.
Seth: ...The city doesn’t seem to be very heavily patrolled. They must feel it’s not worth guarding with Castle Renais under their control. We must try to not draw attention to ourselves. The west gate is undermanned....
Saleh: Pardon me, may I ask you a question?
 
Eirika: What is it?
Saleh: I’m looking for someone. Have you seen a young girl with indigo hair?
Eirika: Indigo hair? No...Sorry.
Saleh: Hmmm... Thank you. Sorry to intrude.
 
Eirika: There was something very odd about that man, wouldn’t you say?
Seth: He did seem unusual. He didn’t strike me as a Grado spy, but...
Soldiers: Catch her! Don’t let her escape! That way! She went that way!
Eirika: What’s that?
Seth: It’s coming from over there.
Eirika: Let’s see what the commotion is.
 
Soldier: Traitor Natasha! Surrender peacefully. Come quietly, and you may have the chance to explain yourself before His Majesty.
Natasha: Wait, please. You must listen to me!
Soldier: Take her.
Natasha: No, you must believe me! The emperor is not himself. You MUST be able to see that!
Soldier: Impugn the emperor at your peril! We’ve been ordered to execute you if you offer any resistance. But your words condemn you!
Eirika: That cleric is a traitor to the throne of Grado? What madness is this?
 
Natasha: Ah...
Eirika: Are you all right?
Natasha: Who are you?
Eirika: I’m from Renais. Why are these Grado men after you?
Natasha: You’re from Renais...Oh! I have something I must tell you. It’s about Grado–
Eirika: Wait–Grado soldiers are coming this way. We’ll have to talk later. Now we must fight!

@Battle 
Joshua: So much for my dreams of making my fortune here... First the girl, now the gold. It really isn’t my lucky day.
Soldier: You there! Mercenary! What are you doing here at the arena? Get back to the staging area now!
Joshua: C’mon, why don’t we both hit the arena? It’ll be good training, If you’re going to risk your life anyway, you may as well try to earn some gold.
Soldier: I’m reporting you to the captain! You’ll be lucky if he just docks your pay! Don’t forget–You can be replaced in an eyeblink, you filthy sellsword!
Joshua: Don’t worry, little man. I won’t forget. Work’s work, but I don’t like fighting women... Now then, what’s the rest of the day got in store for me? ...Tails huh? That’s nothing but bad luck and more bad luck...
 
Natasha: They may not want to hear what I have to say, but... I must speak with one of the Grado soldiers. Oh, if only one of them will listen to my words... Please! Grant me strength.

Brigand: Look at this. Now’s our chance! C’mon, lads! Let’s join the fights and steal our way through this pathetic town!

@Visit 
Tethys: Oh, hello. Did you come to see me dance? I’m sorry, but I just finished a few moments ago. Oh, by the way...Would you be interested in one of these items? A wealthy patron left me a small ransom in gifts after watching my performance. You can sell one for gold if you’d like or use them to improve your skills. I simply cannot carry all of this by myself, so please, take this one. Wealth is useless if you can’t use it to bring happiness to others, right? Thanks for dropping my. Perhaps we’ll meet again someday.

Man: Life in Serafew’s been harder since the Grado occupation force took over here. Serafew’s got Renais citizens as well as Grado, but it’s been hardest on us. They’ve singled out families from Renais for the most awful atrocities. Please, traveler, take this sword. It’s an armorslayer. It’ll cut through even the strongest armor. Take it and strike down that blackheart, Saar.

@Recruit-Talk 
%Natasha,Joshua
Natasha: You...You’re that man I met... Are you here to capture me? You’ve been hired to silence me, haven’t you...
Joshua: Yeah, Grado’s paying the bill. They want you dead, you know? But don’t feel bad. It’s not personal.
Natasha: Wait, please... It doesn’t matter what happens to me, but you must hear my words. The emperor of Grado is changed. He is not the man he once was. The other nations must be warned before he extinguishes all light from out lands.
Joshua: Hey, no offense, but I’m just a mercenary. I don’t care about Grado or its emperor. Everything you say may be true, or it may be lies. I don’t care either way.
Natasha: But that’s...
Joshua: Even so...killing a beautiful lady like you would leave a bad taste in my mouth. Tell me, do you like to gamble?
Natasha: What?!
Joshua: Gambling’s what I live for. Even when I lose, I never want to stop. Let’s have us a little wager. If you win, I’ll believe you. Heads or tails, you call it.
Natasha: You can’t... This is no time for games...
Joshua: Would you rather I get on with the job I was hired for?
Natasha: ...... Um, heads... No! Tails!
Joshua: All right. So I’m heads, and you’re tails. Here we go. ... ... ...
Natasha: ...... Which...Which is it?
Joshua: What do you know?! It’s tails. You win. Figures. I haven’t won anything all day. Well, Lady Luck has spoken. Guess I’m on your side now.
Natasha: Are you serious?
Joshua: Yeah. Sure, I might cheat, but I never worm out of a bet. It’s a rule of mine.
Natasha: Oh, thank heaven! Thank you, blessed light, for your protection!
Joshua: I got nothing against heaven, but I’m right here if you want someone to thank... No? Well , get behind me then. I’ve got to take care of these fools.
 
@Visit
Old man: In my youth, I was a knight of some renown, I’ll have you know. I’ve even crossed blades with one of Grado’s most famous generals, I have. Ah, but I’m an old man now... I’m starting to worry... What if I die without passing on my techniques? So I decided to write down what I’ve learned in a book. I have it here. You seem like a strong warrior. I’d be honored if you would accept it. 
 
Amelia: Hope everyone’ well back home in Silva. Just a bit more, and I’ll be in the empire. Let’s see, I’ve got vulneraries, antitoxins... Oh! And I can’t let myself forget torches for when it gets dark. Yep! I’m all set! Now I just need to get to the capital. I’ll be the finest soldier the Grado army’s ever seen! I swear it!
Eirika: Hm? What’s this...

@Boss 
Saar: Enemy of the empire! Death’s too good for you!
 
Saar: Emperor Vigarde... Glory to His...Majesty...

@End 
Eirika: That was a tight spot.
Natasha: Yes, yes it was... Thank you so much. I don’t know how to repay–
Seth: You’re from Grado, aren’t you?
Natasha: Yes... My name is Natasha. I was a servant of the people at Grado’s Imperial Temple.
Eirika: Then why the trouble with the soldiers? Would you tell us your story?
Natasha: Of course... A few days past, my mentor was arrested without warning. They executed him. They said he as a traitor... But those were false accusations. The emperor had him killed–a holy man!–to keep him silent.
Seth: Keep him silent?
Natasha: Yes. My mentor told me with his final breath. The emperor plans to destroy the Sacred Stones.
Eirika: The Sacred Stones? Destroy them?
Natasha: As you must know, the Sacred Stones drove back the power of evil long ago. Even now, each of our nations is home to one of these legendary treasures. There’s one in my homeland, Grado, and one in your Renais...
Eirika: Yes, the Sacred Stone of Renais is still housed in our royal temple.
Natasha: The emperor plans to destroy the five stones, one by one...
Seth: Why would he do such a thing? Legend says the Sacred Stones are even now all that keep evil at bay!
Natasha: I cannot begin to guess his motives... You must know, our emperor was a gentle man. But one day, he changed. Utterly. Before my mentor died, he said the keepers of the Sacred Stones must be warned. I tried to slip across the border, but the soldiers spotted me...
Eirika: Is that what happened... What do you think, Seth?
Seth: I think we can trust no one from Grado. Not in these times. Not without proof. However, if what she says is true, we cannot ignore the danger we face. Destroying the Sacred Stones... We cannot allow that to happen.
Eirika: I agree. If only we knew if there were some reason for the emperor’s actions. I must tell you, her story chills me to the bone. I pray it is false...
 
Man: A moment, please. Are you perchance... Princess Eirika?
Eirika: I am.
Man: Oh... Thank goodness you’re safe! I can’t tell you how happy I am. And please accept my gratitude for driving off that Captain Saar. That Saar treated all the citizens of Renais with such contempt and brutality....
Eirika: Not here...not in this city. My brother and I spent such happy times here with Lyon...
Man: I beg your pardon, but it will not be long before Grado sends more troops. Please, you must go quickly.
Eirika: I’m so sorry. There’s nothing I can do for you now. Please forgive me.
Man: Do not be troubled. Princess Eirika... We will survive and wait for the day of liberation to come. There will be a day when you, Prince Ephraim, and all of Renais rise up... Until that day of glory comes, we will wait unbowed and filled with hope.

/***EOF***/
@Opening 
The group sets off in search of Grado’s elusive Imperial Prince Lyon. Innes has ordered Frelian troops to aid in the hunt. The troops return with news that Lyon has moved north. The group’s search for Lyon leads them to Mt. Neleras, deep within Darkling Woods. The scorching heat and sulphur stench render the area unfit for human habitation... Endless numbers of gorgon eggs stud the forbidding landscape.

@Intro 
Eirika: L'Arachel... May I ask your advice?
L'Arachel: What is it, Eirika? There's no need to be so formal.
Eirika: It's about Lyon... My brother was right. Lyon's been possessed by the Demon King. He... He's no longer the Lyon I once knew. But I can't help feeling... there must be some way to bring him back.
L'Arachel: ......
Eirika: Please help me, L'Arachel. I want to save him. Rausten is the spiritual heart of Magvel. They keep the ancient lore. You're their princess. You must know something about the demons of legend. Is there anything that can save Lyon?
L'Arachel: I'm so sorry, Eirika. To the best of my knowledge, there is no way to aid him.
Eirika: That can't be! There must be something! Any clue, no matter how slight...
L'Arachel: Our oldest legends tell us just this... Only one person has ever been able to shake off the Demon King's domination. Rausten's founder, Saint Latona the sure-hearted, shattered his fetters. If one possesses a strength of will beyond that of normal men... Only then can one throw off the shackles of the Demon King. But you saw it for yourself, Eirika, with your own two eyes. Your friend Lyon's body has already been claimed by the Demon King. Once it's gone that far, there's nothing that can be done. When the Demon King takes over someone, he devours his spirit, their very soul. Even if his hold on Lyon's body could be released, that body would have no soul. There is no power in Rausten... not even the Sacred Stone... that can perform so great a miracle as to restore a shattered soul.
Eirika: But... Lyon...
L'Arachel: Eirika... I understand how you feel, but the prince is gone. The Lyon you knew no longer exists. It's more important now that you care for yourself. If we pursue the Demon King, we're likely to suffer for it. I want you to return to Rausten Palace and rest yourself.
Eirika: Thank you, L'Arachel. However, I must stay with the company. I have to believe there's something I can do to help him. Lyon was always so kind. He wanted nothing more than to help people. It's too terrible to picture him imprisoned by the Demon King. Imprisoned... with no hope of salvation.

Soldier: This way! The enemy went into the recesses of this valley.
Eirika: Brother. Do you smell something?
Ephraim: Smell?
Eirika: Yes. An unpleasant odor, like sulphur. It's emanating from this valley.
Ephraim: Are those... eggs?
Myrrh: Gorgon eggs... There are so many...
Eirika: Brother! The eggs! They've started to hatch!
Ephraim: No... He's led us into a trap! Watch out! Everyone, steer clear of those eggs!

L'Arachel: E-Ephraim. I must ask that you slow down! If you travel so swiftly, we cannot keep up.
Ephraim: I'm riding ahead. I can't waste any more time. I must catch the Demon King as quickly as possible.
L'Arachel: And when you find him? Tell me, what then?
Ephraim: ...... ...L'Arachel. Rausten is the spiritual heart of Magvel. They keep the ancient lore. You're their princess. You must know something about the demons of legend. I do not need consolation or peace of mind. I need facts. Lyon, as he is now... Can he be saved?
L'Arachel: I'm sorry... To the best of my knowledge, there's nothing to be done.
Ephraim: ......
L'Arachel: Your friend Lyon's body has already been claimed by the Demon King. Once it's gone that far, there's nothing that can be done. When the Demon King takes over someone, he devours his spirit, his very soul. Even if his hold on Lyon's body could be released, that body would have no soul. There is no power in Rausten...not even the Sacred Stone... that can perform so great a miracle as to restore a shattered soul.
Ephraim: Is that so... I understand. Let's go, L'Arachel.
L'Arachel: W-wait a moment. Hmph! Were you listening to me at all? I'm sorry, but the prince...
Ephraim: ...I heard you. There's no hope of saving Lyon. And if I cannot save him... I will bring him peace with my own hands.
L'Arachel: ...... But... Can you do it? Even if you get the chance, can you bring yourself to kill him? It would be best if you and your sister left this to the rest of us.
Ephraim: No...I'm going to do it. Lyon is my friend. The Demon King stole him from me. I will be the one to kill him.
L'Arachel: If your mind's made up, there's not much I can do, is there? Let's go then.
Ephraim: I'm sorry, L'Arachel.
L'Arachel: There's no need for you to apologize. Your words alone have won my forgiveness.

@End 
Lyon: ......

Eirika: Wait!
Ephraim: Hold, Eirika! Don't go anywhere alone!
Eirika: Lyon's back there! I won't abandon him!

Eirika: Lyon! Lyoooon!
Lyon: Ei... Eirika...
Eirika: Lyon? Where are you?
Lyon: I'm... here.

Eirika: Lyon... Hold on. I'll save you!
Lyon: Forgive me... Eirika... It's over... for me... The Demon King has devoured my soul... I'm mad... and I'm going... to die...
Eirika: Lyon... What should I do? How can I help you? Tell me! I'll do anything, but you have to tell me!
Lyon: ...The Sacred Stone... Give me... the stone...
Eirika: What?
Lyon: My body... is being ravaged by the Demon King. If it continues unchecked, nothing can save me. But if I had the power of a Sacred Stone... I could save... my soul...
Eirika: Lyon...
Lyon: Please... Eirika... I don't want to die yet... I want to live... with you... If I had the Sacred Stone... I could... heal myself... Please...
Eirika: Could the Sacred Stone really do that? Could it heal you?
Lyon: Yes... Please... Eirika...
Eirika: I... trust you, Lyon. I have a stone right here.

Lyon: ...... Ah... It's true... A Sacred Stone... Ha ha...... Heh heh heh... An abominable Sacred Stone... Here in my grasp.
Eirika: What? Lyon? No... You're--

Lyon: Ha ha... heh heh heh. How disappointing for you. This body is mine now. Nothing remains of your dear boy's soul.
Eirika: You only pretended to be Lyon... You deceived me. Return him! Return Lyon now!
Lyon: I'm afraid there's no hope of that. You see, I've devoured him. Bite by bite, slowly. How I savored it. Nothing remains but this suit of flesh I wear. There is nothing to heal. Not even the power of a Sacred Stone can craft something from nothing. He cannot be saved.
Eirika: That... can't...
Lyon: Ha ha... Bwah ha ha ha! I love how humans look when they're drowning in despair. Now is the time to be done with this stone.

Ephraim: Eirika!
Lyon: Oh... caught up, have you? Hmm, I've changed my mind. I'll leave the girl alive. Take her. There are memories of you in this flesh I wear. And I hunger to see your face bear more suffering and pain.

Eirika: ......
Ephraim: Eirika! Wake up! Do you know who I am?
Eirika: Brother... Lyon? Lyon's...
Ephraim: Eirika... I know. Don't speak.
Eirika: I... I... Lyon is... He's really...
Ephraim: Let's go back. L'Arachel will be worried. Eirika... You can weep now. As much as you need. Weep for me, as well...

Seth: ...It appears the enemy fled over this cliff.
Eirika: I see no way we can pursue him now...
Ephraim: So he got away, is that it?
L'Arachel: There's no cause to be discouraged. Beyond these mountains lie the heart of Darkling Woods. Before we enter, we must head north to Rausten. After all, we still need the Sacred Stone of Rausten. As long as even one stone remains, all hope is not lost. Come on. We cannot give in to despair when victory draws so near!

Lyon: ......

Ephraim: Hold! Demon King!
Lyon: Hmph... You again?
Ephraim: ...I’ve one thing to ask before I slay you. Where is Lyon now? When I kill you... will Lyon return?
Lyon: Heh heh... How little you understand. Lyon is no longer part of your world. He cannot be restored. I have devoured every last delicious scrap of his small soul.
Ephraim: You monster!!!
Lyon: Why does this upset you? What does it matter what happens to that weakling now? He was a sickly cretin whose trivial dreams were nothing but hopeless–
Ephraim: SHUT UP! He was my friend. We’ll always be friends. I made a promise to him. You stole Lyon’s soul and corrupted his dreams! I’ll crush the life out of you.

Ephraim: Gwaa...ah... What?! My body–!
Lyon: Don’t resist. Soon you will be unable to move at all...

Lyon: So you had the Stone of Renais with you after all. If you’ll just give me a moment to destroy it...
Ephraim: Stop...urgh!

Lyon: And that’s the end of your Sacred Stone... Now then, Prince Ephraim. Are you prepared?
Ephraim: Curse you... Do it!!! Finish me! With my dying breath, I’ll cut you to ribbons.
Lyon: ......
Ephraim: What are you waiting for?! Are you frightened?
Lyon: ...Tell me, Prince Ephraim of Renais. Why do you fight on? Do you think you accomplish your sad desire? Can you restore your homeland from the grave? Overthrow evil? Or protect your sister?
Ephraim: You won’t kill me. I’ll do all these things, fiend... All these things and more. For my friend Lyon... I will avenge his soul. I won’t let his gentle image be defiled...

Lyon: ...... I guess it’s true... You haven’t changed, Ephraim.
Ephraim: Huh? What’s– What did you say?
Lyon: ......
Ephraim: What’s going on? You’re the Demon King... You’re the ancient evil... You told me you’d devoured Lyon’s soul, that nothing remained. So why did you... How do you know about me? It’s not... Could it be...you...
Lyon: ......
Ephraim: Is that you...Lyon?
Lyon: Uh-huh... That’s right. It’s me, Lyon, Prince of Grado. I’m not the Demon King. Sorry, Ephraim. That whole thing about the Demon King eating my soul and me dying? That was all a lie.
Ephraim: Wha– Why?! Why would you say such a thing?!
Lyon: Listen, Ephraim. I’ve always loved you. I’ve always hated you. I’ve always looked up to you. I wanted to be just like you. Then one day I realized... Someone like me could never become someone like you. You and Eirika are...overpowering. You blinded me with your radiance. How could I live in your shadows and not seethe with jealousy?
Ephraim: Lyon...
Lyon: Before I ever touched the Dark Stone... I had a vision. A vision of the future of Magvel. I saw myself standing with two roads stretched out before me. One led to the Demon King, devouring both my body and soul. The other showed me the power to fight the Demon King’s dominion. And I, well.. ...Gaa...urgh.
Ephraim: Lyon!
Lyon: Then I acquired the Dark Stone. The Demon King began to eat my soul and corrupt my flesh. I almost vanished beneath the Demon King’s mantle. The I remembered you... My mind blazed into wakefulness. All at once, my mind shouted out, I will not be devoured! Just as I was about to lose myself to the Demon King. I was able to drive him back. The Demon King’s desires are simple–foul, but uncomplicated. He wants nothing but the destruction, conquest, and subjugation of man. These shallow desires are nothing to the dreams of the human heart. And of the two roads I had seen, I chose the latter.
Ephraim: .....
Lyon: But I didn’t want to appear before you here in the role of Lyon. Lyon, the piteous victim... The Demon King, the fiendish villain... It was all an act–high drama for you all, to suit this grand occasion. That’s right, Ephraim. I’m the Demon King... The Demon King is me.
Ephraim: You lie... It can’t be. It’s not possible. Lyon was... My friend was kind and caring... He was a good person... But you... You are not that person!
Lyon: Ephraim...
Ephraim: You... You’re the Demon King. Lyon is gone, and you are a liar! You’re trying to trick me. You’re trying to confuse me! I’m right, aren’t I?! Tell me I’m right, Lyon! TELL ME!
Lyon: I’m sorry, Ephraim. Ephraim, listen to me. Ten days from now... When the moon is swallowed by shadow... In Darkling Woods, I will perform a ceremony... Through this ceremony, I will gain immense power. Power not change not only Grado, but the entire world.
Ephraim: Change...the world?
Lyon: But after that... I cannot save myself. I’ll become the Demon King of old and try to destroy all of mankind. Ephraim. If you want to stop this, you must come to Darkling Woods. I want you to come. I need you to stop me. You must promise.

Ephraim: ...Lyon... I...
Eirika: Brother! Are you... You look ill.
Ephraim: ...Is that you, Eirika? Don’t worry. It’s nothing.
Eirika: B-but...you’re so pale. What happened?
Ephraim: ...Eirika.
Eirika: Y-yes?
Ephraim: Lyon is... Lyon’s my friend. Forever and always.
Eirika: Brother... Let’s get out of here. L’Arachel and the others are worried.
Seth: ...It appears the enemy fled over this cliff.
Eirika: I see no way we can pursue him now...
Ephraim: So he got away, is that it?

/***EOF***/
@Intro 
Vigarde: The Stone of Frelia has already been taken care of... How is it the Stone of Renais continues to elude us? Glen. Valter. Find the children of Renais. Find them and take from them the bracelets that they wear. Glen, take Eirika. Valter, take Ephraim. Find them. Conquer them.
Glen: Yes, Your Majesty...
Valter: Ha ha... Eirika, eh? She's a ripe little peach. And her brother, Ephraim... He's better prey than I'd imagined. I can feel my blood rushing at the thought. This might be fun after all.
Vigarde: Caellach. Riev. Shatter the remaining Sacred Stones. Caellach, take Jehanna. Riev, take Rausten. Go. Crush the Sacred Stones they house.
Riev: Heh heh heh... As you will. I'll begin making arrangements for Rausten's downfall immediately...
Caellach: Bah! Why am I stuck with Jehanna? Accursed ill luck. I became a mercenary to escape that wretched place, and now I must go back?
Vigarde: Duessel. Go to Frelia. Punish the Frelian army and their commander, Ephraim.
Duessel: Begging your pardon, Your Majesty... Now that you've conquered Renais, what are your plans for her citizens? The country is in ruins. Thieves and bandits swagger about as if--
Vigarde: Leave them...
Duessel: But, sire...
Selena: Sir Duessel. The emperor has spoken. Please...
Duessel: ......
Vigarde: Selena. Remain here in the capital. We shall have new orders for you shortly.
Selena: Understood.
Duessel: Please, Your Majesty! Grant me the privilege of a single question.
Vigarde: ...... ...You vex us.
Duessel: Your Majesty, you know that I will gladly lay down my life for an honorable cause! But these orders--and all of our recent actions--they are not just! If I saw any way in which this invasion protected Grado, I would hold my tongue. But now, Renais is left ungoverned to drown in chaos, and we gain nothing! Why do you wage this war? What is it you hope to achieve? You've sent our men to fight and die for nothing! This isn't war--it's murder!
Vigarde: ...Duessel. This decision is ours to make. You have no voice in these matters.
Duessel: Punish me if you must, Your Majesty, but I implore you! Please rethink this!! If this continues, Grado will--
Vigarde: Duessel. Go to Frelia. Crush the Frelian army and he who leads them, Prince Ephraim.
Duessel: Your Majesty!
Vigarde: Have you gone deaf? Duessel. Go to Frelia. Crush the Frelian army and he who leads them, Prince Ephraim.
Duessel: ...... Yes, Your Majesty.
Vigarde: ......

Soldier: Commander Gheb! We captured a pegasus knight snooping about outside.

Tana: Let me go! Stop it! That hurts!
Gheb: Ooooh... You didn't tell me she was such a treat for the eyes. Heh heh... This is a prize worth catching.
Tana: I-I came for Ephraim. If you do anything to me, he will not be merciful.
Gheb: Heh heh... I like her. Throw her in a cell. I'll spend the evening giving her a thorough interrogation. Heh heh heh...
Tana: You b-beast!

Seth: That is Fort Rigwald. It has stood unconquered for generations. Its defenses are legendary. It is the jewel of Grado's fortifications, and its walls have never been breached.
Ephraim: And if we don't capture it, any attack on the capital will be pointless. Tell me what you see, Seth. Do we have the power to take it?
Seth: It's a daunting task. The enemy has the advantage of both terrain and numbers.
Ephraim: But what about in morale?
Seth: Do you suspect the soldiers may be unwilling to fight?
Ephraim: Anything's possible. This war is a sudden thing, but Grado and Renais had long been friendly. Before these hostilities, our nations were allies... No, closer even than that. This is the emperor's war, but the hearts of the people are not so swift to change. For example, General Duessel, one of the Imperial Three they call Obsidian... He was the one who taught me what I know about fighting with the lance. Duessel's sympathies are sure to remain with Renais--and with our cause. He is loyal to Grado, but he has no love of war. I'm sure he will speak with me.
Seth: ......
Ephraim: And more than that, Prince Lyon has been my friend for years. He can be timid at times and perhaps was unable to oppose his father in this. But I'm sure he detests this fighting and shares my opinions.
Seth: Prince Ephraim...
Ephraim: There must be some Grado soldiers within the castle who do not want to fight. If we can rush the fort and seize the throne room, I believe they will surrender.
Seth: ...Optimism here may be deadly. Still, it's a far better plan than challenging the main army face-to-face.
Ephraim: Eirika is on her way to Rausten to help end this conflict. We cannot afford to wait here for much longer. We must take this fort and then press on to the capital itself. Let's go!

Fighter: Attack! We're under attack! ...Looks to be Frelian troops. Their commander is... Prince Ephraim of Renais!
Soldier: Renais? This whole thing stinks. My younger sister and her husband were living in Renais... What is the emperor thinking, starting this war? I think--
Gheb: ...Hey.
Soldier: Ah!
Gheb: Yeah, I heard you. Talking about not fighting, are you? Losing your nerve? The punishment for treason is harsh. You'll burn at the stake.
Soldier: B-but-- It's not just me! Even General Duessel is opposed to this war!
Gheb: Duessel? You'd side with that washed-up coward? And who is your commanding officer? Is it Duessel? Come on, out with it!
Soldier: Y-you are, Sir Gheb.
Gheb: That's right. So that should make it clear whose orders you follow, eh? You got that, dolts? If you do, then shut up and get in formation. No one cares whether you minnows live or die anyway. Got it?
Amelia: W-wait a moment! That's a horrible thing to say!
Gheb: And who are you supposed to be? Your name! Out with it!
Amelia: I-I'm Amelia... I was assigned to this fort today! I am a soldier of Grado. I am not a slave!
Gheb: What's this now? You're a girl? You've got a lot of nerve talking like that to your commander, recruit. Looks like I'm going to have to teach you about the chain of command.
Amelia: Ah...
Soldier: Commander Gheb! Enemy troops approaching!
Gheb: Grrr! Stinking interruptions... Form up, you useless worms. Don't let those dogs near the throne. Grado cannot afford to lose a brilliant tactician of my stature! No one will blink if any of you worthless toads dies. But if I die-- You should be happy to fight, kill, and die in my service!
Amelia: I became a soldier to honor the emperor, General Duessel, and the people of Grado. But this...this is wrong!
Soldier: That's the lot of a soldier. We're pawns in the games of kings and emperors. We fight as ordered, and we die as ordered. That's it. C'mon, time to go.
Tana: Oh, what a fool I've been... I came all this way to help Ephraim, and I end up getting captured again. That General Gheb had the creepiest eyes...and that laugh! Oh! Hurry, Ephraim... Please. Hurry and rescue me.

@Recruit-Talk 
%Franz,Amelia
Franz: You...you're a girl?!
Amelia: Ah! Don't make fun of me! I'm a soldier of Grado! Prepare yourself, Frelian dog!
Franz: W-wait a minute!
Amelia: Oof...
Franz: Are, are you all right? It's not surprising you fell over from that stance. Can you get up?
Amelia: Sh-shut up!
Franz: Did you hurt your knee? I know how it feels. I did it often enough as a recruit myself. To be honest, I still do it more than I should.
Amelia: ......
Franz: I'm Franz. I'm a Knight of Renais. What's your name?
Amelia: I'm Amelia.
Franz: Amelia, do you think I could ask you to surrender? This may be odd, but I really have no desire to fight you.
Amelia: ......
Franz: I get the feeling you don't want to fight either. Am I right?
Amelia: I... B-but... I've heard Prince Ephraim takes female prisoners and uses them as palace slaves. If I surrender, will I be forced to work in the palace, too?
Franz: N-no, don't be silly! Prince Ephraim would never do such a thing...I think...
Amelia: You think?
Franz: No, he wouldn't! Of course not. You have my word of honor.
Amelia: ...Well, you seem sincere. I'll trust you, Franz.

%Ephraim,Amelia
Ephraim: You're a Grado soldier? But you're just a child.
Amelia: I am not a child! I'm a soldier of Grado, and I will defeat every soldier of Frelia I meet!
Ephraim: Is that so? Guess I'm ready then.
Amelia: Um...
Ephraim: ...Is that the stance you're going to use? You'll drop your lance that way. I'm Prince Ephraim of Renais. Why don't you surrender and come with me?
Amelia: Wha-what are you going to do to me?!
Ephraim: Calm down. As long as you don't try to stab me, I won't do a thing to harm you.
Amelia: You lie! You're a liar! Everyone knows about Prince Ephraim of Renais. He's a beast who attacks any woman he sees...
Ephraim: ......Right, this has gone far enough. I am not going to hurt you. If you're scared, throw down your weapon and run away. But...if you're willing to listen, I'd like to ask for your help. You must realize this whole war is madness, right? Something is wrong in Grado.
Amelia: ...... I-I'm...

%Ephraim,Tana
Ephraim: Tana?! What are you doing here?
Tana: I came here in hopes of helping you in some way. But while I was looking for you, I got captured by Grado troops.
Ephraim: Is that so? Well, I'm glad to see you're unharmed. Tana, you should head back to Castle Frelia immediately. King Hayden must be worried about you.
Tana: No! Ephraim, I came all this way so I could help you!
Ephraim: And yet, here I am, helping you.
Tana: Ah, well... Yes, that may be true, but-- But I've been so worried about you, Ephraim!
Ephraim: I see. Oh, please don't look at me with those teary eyes. If you're really determined to help, then you're welcome to come with us. But you must promise me not to try anything reckless.
Tana: Ephraim... Thank you. I knew that you would understand how I feel.

@Boss 
Wh-what was that? You piece of trash, what do you think you're doing?

%Amelia,Gheb
Gheb: Y-you wench... You're that recruit, aren't you? Do you think you can betray me and get away with it?
Amelia: Your threats no longer hold any power over me. I-I am not your pawn!

@End 
Seth: Prince Ephraim, the rest of the enemy troops have been routed.
Ephraim: Bring me one of the prisoners. I have a question I need answered.
Soldier: ......
Ephraim: I'm going to ask you a question. If you've no wish to answer, remain silent. If you wish this conflict to end quickly, however, you will cooperate.
Soldier: ...... ...What do you want?
Ephraim: Why has Grado invaded Renais?
Soldier: ...I can't say. This war began on the emperor's orders. Soldiers like me haven't the foggiest idea what he's after.
Ephraim: Then tell me this: where is General Duessel?
Soldier: In the capital. The general's been opposed to this war from the start. He's been pleading with the emperor for days now, but the emperor ignores him. They say some are questioning the general's loyalty. He's putting his standing--and his life-- in danger by being so vocal.
Ephraim: Is that so... Well, it appears General Duessel remains the same true man I knew before. What about Prince Lyon? Where's he been through all of this? Why didn't he do anything to temper his father's aggression?
Soldier: ...... According to rumors... Emperor Vigarde was convinced to start this war by none other than the prince himself.
Ephraim: What did you say? That's ridiculous! I know Prince Lyon well. No one hates fighting more than he does. He would never do anything to trigger all this bloodshed!
Seth: Prince Ephraim, please calm down.
Ephraim: ...I'm sorry.
Ephraim: We leave the prisoners and the fort to the Frelian troops. Seth, I intend for us to press on toward the capital. At some point, I expect we'll find either Duessel or Lyon. I'm sure we can convince them to join us in stopping Emperor Vigarde.
Seth: Understood. But I have misgivings, my prince. General Duessel and Prince Lyon are both men of Grado. If we are forced into conflict with them...
Ephraim: It won't happen. Duessel was my teacher, and I know he is a man of character. And I've known Lyon since we were children. He, Eirika, and I are old friends.
Seth: ......
Ephraim: I understand your concerns. If worse comes to worst and steel is drawn, I will not hesitate. I'll fight and kill anyone who thinks to oppose me. Are you satisfied, Seth?
Seth: Yes... I apologize for my rudeness. Your father is gone, and that means you are king of Renais. There is no other. I just ask that you not throw yourself into needless danger.
Ephraim: I hear you. The decisions I make affect more than my own life. Once this war is finished, I will rebuild Renais with Eirika. That is my mission.
Ephraim: Myrrh.
Myrrh: What is it?
Ephraim: You must return to Frelia. I cannot take you any farther on this journey.
Myrrh: What? No. I want to stay with you...
Ephraim: No, Myrrh. I'm continuing on to the Grado capital. It's going to be very dangerous. I can't protect you--not as well as I'd like to, anyway.
Myrrh: Everything comes from that direction. I can feel my lost dragonstone... And that's not all. The dark energy still flows unchecked... I cannot go home while it stains the air...
Ephraim: But...
Myrrh: Please, Ephraim.
Ephraim: ...Very well. Ah, I simply cannot refuse you anything. Your eyes remind me too much of Eirika. You must not stray from my side, do you understand?
Myrrh: Yes, I will not stray...

Vigarde: Selena. Your orders.
Selena: I am ready, Your Majesty. In your service, I am prepared to do--
Vigarde: Duessel has left for Bethroen. Take a battalion and follow him.
Selena: Understood. When I arrive, I will place my troops at his disposal.
Vigarde: No... You will not. You will strike Duessel down.
Selena: Wha...
Vigarde: Duessel is a traitor. He has abandoned his country and sided with Renais. The punishment for treason is death.
Selena: B-but... General Duessel a traitor? That's just not possible! There must be a mistake...
Vigarde: ......
Selena: No... I did not mean that you are mistaken, Your Majesty. But...but...
Vigarde: Selena. You have your orders. You will execute Duessel.
Selena: ...... ...Your Majesty. Will you allow me to ask you a question?
Vigarde: ......
Selena: When Your Majesty saw fit to make me a general, you shared with me some words of wisdom. I remember the moment quite clearly. You told me the role of an imperial general is that of the shield, not the blade. We are here to protect our citizens, you said--not to threaten our neighbors. I have never forgotten your words, Your Majesty. I have held them to my breast. They govern my every action as general. Your Majesty, that sentiment is still alive, and--
Vigarde: Go.
Selena: ...... I humbly acknowledge your orders. Your Majesty... I am the empire's servant. I am Your Majesty's vassal. I am General Selena, the Fluorspar of the Grado Empire.
/***EOF***/
@Opening 
Ephraim's sister is in danger Grado's General Caellach has attacked Jehanna Hall, forcing its surrender. Though Eirika and her troop have left the Hall, Grado's forces pursue them relentlessly. Trapped in the burning desert, enemy forces close in on them from all sides. With no time to wait for Frelia's troops, Ephraim leaves for Jehanna immediately. He must go to his sister's aid.

@Intro 
^start
Seth: Princess Eirika, are you well?
Eirika: ......
Seth: Princess Eirika!
Eirika: ...Oh...Seth?
Seth: Yes, it’s me. Please, you must rest. If we continue like this, you’ll...
Eirika: No... it’s all right. We’re all suffering... We’re still completely surrounded by Grado’s armies... We may all die at any moment... I can’t lose focus now. Has anything changed?
Seth: Unfortunately, no. On every front, our forces meet with defeat upon defeat. Rausten’s knights are scattered and worn, and the enemy is closing in around them. And this accursed sand... Most of the units can’t get proper footing and are being slowed down. Mounted units are having the worst time, as their movement is severely limited. Princess Eirika... I ask that you leave for safety. We’ll use flying units and magic users to hold the foe here.
Eirika: No. I will not retreat. If I give up now... My brother would not forgive me. I’m the princess of Renais. I will fight, either to victory or to death. Brother, I...

Ephraim: There’s Jehanna Hall... It’s nothing but a ruin now. Blast! I don’t know what’s happened, but... I’d better get to Eirika and the others as soon as possible.
Seth: I’ve discovered which of Grado’s generals lead the forces surrounding the hall. Valter the Moonstone and Caellach the Tiger Eye. Two of the strongest of the empire’s generals, with near-peerless forces. Above all else, we must rescue Princess Eirika, and yet... If you fall, Prince Ephraim, we’re all finished. And this accursed sand... Most of the units can’t get proper footing and are being slowed down. Mounted units are having the worst time, as their movement is severely limited. Some of us can move better than others, though... A combination of magic wielders and sky riders should give us some advantage. Whatever we do, we must move cautiously.
Ephraim: I understand. This is just like the battle for Renvall. We either rescue Eirika or defeat all the enemy troops. If we accomplish either goal, victory is ours. Let’s move!
^end
 
^start
Riev: Valter... You should stop playing around. If you don’t’ finish off Eirika’s forces swiftly... Her brother’s left the capital. He should be arriving here shortly. You don’t want to be fighting her still when he arrives. Trust me. We are equals here in Grado’s army. Would you like me to assist?
Valter: All you need to do is vanish, you disgusting old man. Eirika is mine. I won’t let you have her. She is so strong, so beautiful... She’s the prey I’ve dreamed of.
Riev: Heh heh heh... Your fangs are still sharp, eh? Good. Very good. Ah, Valter... You’re a beast. You’re bound to no country. You care nothing for friend or foe. Kill a man, claim a woman... You live for nothing more, you wretched beast. That’s your strength. That’s what makes you stronger than any many alive. A beast acts without remorse. Man’s morality cannot win. It’s nature’s way... The stage is all yours, Valter. Do not fail to get the girl’s bracelet. Our master demands it...
Valter: The time is nigh, Eirika... Come to me!

Lyon: How goes it, Caellach?
Caellach: Ah, Prince Lyon. Thank you, Your Highness, for gracing me with...your royal...er...
Lyon: You can stop. There’s no need for you to put on airs. You were made general for your military prowess, not your flowery speech.
Caellach: And an honor it is. You know, Prince Lyon, you’ve got a lot of nerve. You’re really worked over your dear friend the princess of Renais. Are you satisfied?
Lyon: Is there some reason you ask?
Caellach: No, not really. I just wanted to see how you’d react. That’s all.
Lyon: She... Eirika has always been a very important person in my life. Both she and her brother have been friends of mine for a long time. Tell me, Caellach, do you have any friends to speak of?
Caellach: Huh? Yeah, I got one. An old mercenary I fought with, went by the name of Joshua. He was a fool and a scoundrel, but now that he’s gone, I miss the lad. I don’t know where he’s at or what he’s doing, but...
Lyon: Do you miss that life? Do you ever want to be a mercenary again, to see him?
Caellach: Nope. The time we worked together was fun and all, but... No. I don’t want to end up another no-name mercenary lying dead in a ditch. I’d rather serve the Grado Empire and make a name for myself. I’m going to see how far my axe will take me. And then, one day...
Lyon: One day, you’ll kill me and be emperor in my stead. Is that it?
Caellach: Uh... That’s...
Lyon: It’s all right. Think whatever you like if it helps you do your duty. As long as you do what I assign you to do, I’m happy. But for now, I’m going. You know what you need to do.
Caellach: Yep, leave it to me. I am General Caellach, the Tiger Eye of the Grado Imperial Army, after all! Once my prey is within my reach, I never let it escape. Too bad for the princess, but they’ve no chance of winning. None at all.
^end

@Battle 
^start
Ephraim: That building beyond the dunes is Jehanna Hall. I expect that’s where we’ll find Eirika and her companions. Duessel, Knoll. It’s time we rescued Eirika. I’ll need all your strength.
Duessel: Of course, Your Highness. I’ve pledged my service and my axe. You shall have both.
Knoll: Princess Eirika... She’s a friend of Prince Lyon’s, isn’t she? I’ll do what I can to help you. I feel like that is what Prince Lyon would want.
Ephraim: The enemy’s numbers are great, but we do not need to face them alone. We must move quickly to join forces with Eirika and her company. I’m sure Seth and Innes will be there waiting for us. Let’s move!

Eirika: Prince Innes... And Saleh. I’m sorry. I’m absolutely powerless here...
Innes: Eirika, you have nothing to apologize for. We’re not defeated yet. Jehanna Hall has fallen, that much is true. But if we can hold out until Ephraim arrives, we still have a chance of victory.
Saleh: And reports place Lady Myrrh at Prince Ephraim’s side. It is my duty to protect her. I will not die without having fulfilled my obligation to her.
Eirika: You’re right... I made a promise, too. I told Ephraim I would live to see him again. We just have to pull together. All of us. We just have to hold out a little longer. If we pool our strength now, I vow that we will all live to see our friends again.
^end
 
@Visit
Man: According to this ancient document... ...There was a huge battle here long, long ago. Every day, I’m out here digging up ancient weapons and artifacts out of the sand. There are still more to be found, of that you can be sure. It’s even said a long-dead sage left a copy of Metis’s Tome out here... Oh! But I won’t give that to anyone if I find it. Not a chance!
 
Young Man: All the highest generals in Grado’s army receive titles named after gemstones. The emperor currently has six gemstones fighting in his service. Caellach, the Tiger Eye, commands the forces fighting here. The Moonstone, Valter, is taking part in this battle as well. Glen, also known as the Sunstone, died in the mountains of Carcino. Selena Fluorspar was killed in western Grado. Duessel, whom they call Obsidian, is missing in action... The Blood Beryl, whose real name is Riev, has also gone missing. Hm? How do I know all this? I know I may look young and naive, but this is my job. I’m here to pass this information along to help you out. And it’s good information, too, so don’t waste it.
 
Old Woman: Jehanna Hall...has fallen. I wonder what’s become of Queen Ismaire. You there... Take this, and do some good with it.

@Battle-Talk 
%Ephraim,Eirika
Ephraim: Eirika!
Eirika: Brother? Is that really you? You’re not some phantom, are you?
Ephraim: No, it’s really me. Hold. Enemies approach.
Eirika: ...Ephraim. Even when we were children, you were always there to protect me.
 
%Innes,Ephraim
Innes: It’s been a long time, Ephraim.
Ephraim: Innes, is that you?
Innes: You arrived sooner than I’d expected. Eirika is safe. You’ve no need to worry.
Ephraim: I’ve heard that you’ve been watching over Eirika. I should like to offer you my gratitude.
Innes: It’s not necessary. Besides, there’s still a war to be won. We can’t rest easy till every last Grado soldier’s been defeated.
Ephraim: You’re right. Let’s go!

%Tana,Innes
Tana: B-brother.
Innes: Tana? Why are you here? I told you to remain at Castle Frelia.
Tana: Don’t talk to me like that. I’m a fully sworn knight of Frelia, you know? I came all the way here with Prince Ephraim.
Innes: What? With that man?
Tana: Brother! Ephraim’s a good person. We can talk about this later. I still see enemy troops about. I think we should join forces and fight together.
Innes: Working together is, of course, the best strategy. But don’t do anything foolish, Tana. Who knows what Father would think.
Tana: I understand. You try not to be overly heroic yourself, Brother.

%Tana,Eirika
Tana: Oh, Eirika! Here you are!
Eirika: Tana! You’ve come as well?!
Tana: Yes, I came all the way with Ephraim. I’m just so happy to see you’re safe.
Eirika: Tana. Thank you so much for coming to my aid.
Tana: Well, of course I came. That’s natural. We’re friends after all!

%Seth,Eirika
Seth: Princess Eirika, are you well?
Eirika: Seth! If you’re here...
Seth: Prince Ephraim is safe as well. Princess Eirika, we will stop the remaining enemy soldiers here. Would you please take caution and think of your own safety?
Eirika: Thank you, Seth. You’ve saved me so many times since the fall of Renais...
Seth: It is my duty. Let’s go, Princess Eirika.

%Ewan,Saleh 
Ewan: Ah! Teacher.
Saleh: Ewan? What are you doing here?
Ewan: I came with Prince Ephraim and his friends. I’ve done a lot of good work, Teacher.
Saleh: Is that so... Well, if you all hadn’t shown up, I’m sure we’d be dead now. You’ve saved us, Ewan. Thank you. I am in your debt.
Ewan: Do you mean that? As a reward, will you teach me some more powerful magic?
Saleh: ...I suppose I should at that. But all in good time, Ewan.
Ewan: Yahoo!

@Boss 
Caellach: You’re a stepping-stone... And I’m moving up. Don’t take it personally.
 
Caellach: Bla-Blast... A bit more, and...a crown... would have been...mine...

Valter: I’ve no use for these bloodless minnows... Give me prey that will sate my bloodlust... I hunger!
 
Valter: Urggh... Gaaaah!

@End 
^start
Eirika: Brother!
Ephraim: Eirika!
Eirika: Oh, Ephraim... I’ve missed you so.
Ephraim: And I’ve missed you. I can’t tell you how happy I am to see you safe. Oh, I almost forgot. I have something to give you.
Eirika: What are these?
Ephraim: These are called Sacred Twins. We took these relics from Grado. The dark tome Gleipnir and the black axe Garm... I doubt either of us can use them, but... Why not see if one osf your companions can use them. They might have better luck.
Eirika: They’re from Grado? Does this mean Grado Keep has fallen?
Ephraim: Yes. I conquered the capital and defeated Emperor Vigarde. But still...
L’Arachel: Eirika, may I make a suggestion? We’ve been able to join forces here so... How about if we all get together and trade information. There are people on both sides waiting after all.

Eirika: Brother!
Ephraim: You’ve done well, Eirika.
Eirika: Thanks to you, Ephraim. Ah... Wait a moment. I’ve something to give you.
Ephraim: These are...
Eirika: These are the Sacred Twin relics of Jehanna. The ice sword Audhulma and the wind blade Excalibur.
Ephraim: Jehanna’s Sacred Twins? But it seems like we were too late... Jehanna Hall has fallen.
Eirika: Yes, and Queen Ismaire died resisting Grado.
L’Arachel: Now that we have, at last, been reunited once again, perhaps this would be a good time to share information. I’m sure we all are most anxious to learn of what has happened.
^end
 
Ephraim: I see unfamiliar faces among you here, so allow me to introduce myself. I am Ephraim, Eirika’s brother and crown prince of Renais.
L’Arachel: I’m Princess L’Arachel of Rausten. The pleasure is mine, of course.
Ephraim: I’ll begin by telling you of how we’ve fared in our mission. We seized the Grado capital and defeated her emperor, Vigarde. Grado’s capital guard have, to a man, surrendered and laid down their arms. Pockets of resistance remain, but the war itself is over.
Innes: Is that so?
Ephraim: However, something remains that still bothers me. A Grado man named Knoll told me about something called a Dark Stone.?Their mages had uncovered lore that led them to craft a powerful magic stone. This Dark Stone may have been the catalyst of Grado’s transformation. It seems to be the source of that black wave of energy Myrrh described. Vigarde died some time ago, but the power of the stone played him like a puppet. The war and everything that passed since was planned by the Dark Stone’s master.
Innes: Well? Who is it?
Ephraim: ...I still can’t believe it, but I’ll tell you nonetheless. According to Knoll, the man behind this is Lyon, the imperial prince. He said Lyon’s got the Dark Stone.
Innes: Figures it’s Prince Lyon...
Eirika: No, that doesn’t make any sense. Ephraim and I know Lyon better than that. We’ve been friends for years. Lyon’s not the sort of person who could start a war like this.
Innes: But, Eirika...
Eirika: I saw Lyon recently. Ephraim, you might know this, but after I abandoned the sea route to Rausten, I traveled overland with Prince Innes to Jehanna. We ran into trouble with Grado’s forces, and I chanced upon Lyon. He didn’t share the details of his situation, but he intimated that he was on our side. Despite all appearances, he was on our side. So Lyon...
Ephraim: Eirika, I also met Lyon.
Eirika: Did you really?
Ephraim: Yes. But, he was like a completely different person. To be honest, he didn’t seem to be completely...human.
Eirika: Ephraim... What are you saying?
Ephraim: I’ll tell you what I saw. I found Lyon inside Grado Keep. This is what he told me: He said he was behind this war. He said he’d befriended us solely so that, one day, he could invade Renais... He told me he killed our father.
Eirika: That... That can’t...
Ephraim: I know. I can’t believe it either. I refuse to believe it. How could he have planned all this since he was a child... I simply can’t fathom it. I’ve heard Lyon changed when he acquired the Dark Stone. I’ve no interest in magic, but... There was something uncanny about him. It seemed almost as though he were being controlled by something himself.
Eirika: ......
Innes: The two of you might find this hard to accept, but... The state of Prince Lyon’s heart matters little. He has the Dark Stone. That rock is the cause of all that’s happened. The prince must be stopped.
L’Arachel: Not yet. There is something that needs doing first.
Eirika: L’Arachel?
L’Arachel: Prince Ephraim, I do believe you felt it as well. The Dark Stone held by Prince Lyon... It exudes a malefic miasma... We might be able to handle Prince Lyon alone, but that stone is beyond our ken.
Eirika: Then what do you suggest?
L’Arachel: The Sacred Stones.
Eirika: The Sacred Stones?
L’Arachel: We’ve all heard the legend of the five Sacred Stones. They alone possessed the power to seal the Demon King away forever. So, of course, to dispel demonic magic, we must use the Sacred Stones!
Innes: You expect us to pin the outcome of this war on some fool legend?
Ephraim: ...Not just the legend. We also have hope. According to Lyon, he has already seen to the destruction of Grado’s, Frelia’s, and Jehanna’s stones.
Eirika: Hm. That explains something... Grado forces attacked me, intent on destroying the Stone of Renais. If that could be the reason they chose to invade Renais... The power of the Sacred Stones may be greater than we’d ever known.
L’Arachel: Yes, exactly! If we acquire a Sacred Stone, we’ll be able to oppose the Dark Stone’s might!
Innes: But three of the stones have been shattered, and our options are few. Do you suppose that, during the invasion of Renais...
Ephraim: No, I don’t think so. The Stone of Renais is hidden by the power of Eirika’s and my bracelets.
Eirika: Grado has made many attempts to take our bracelets. Every one has failed, and so the stone may still be safe.
Ephraim: We have to confirm that, of course. We’ve defeated Grado, and we must turn our eyes to our homeland. It’s time to return to Renais.
 
Saleh: Lady Myrrh.
Myrrh: Saleh...
Saleh: I’m grateful to see you well. The people of Caer Pelyn will be overjoyed that you’re safe.
Myrrh: I must apologize to you, Saleh. You were there to protect me from the very start of my journey. When we were attacked, I was separated from you, and... I’m so sorry to have worried you.
Saleh: Lady Myrrh. As long as you are safe, we have nothing to be worried about. It will be my honor to serve you until your mission is complete.
Myrrh: Thank you, Saleh.




/***EOF***/
@Opening 
The capital of Renais. After the twins’ absence, seeing their home ruined by war brings them terrible grief. Orson, a former Knight of Renais, has been assigned to guard Castle Renais. However, he switched allegiances, betraying his oaths of loyalty to his homeland. Eirika marks her homecoming by vowing to see Renais healed.

@Intro 
Eirika: Brother...
Ephraim: What has happened to our home? What has happened to Castle Renais? How did it come to be so ruined? So desolated?
Seth: Spies report that the castle is being held by the traitor Orson.
Ephraim: Orson... In retrospect, I realize he’s been acting odd for a while now. He seemed so... dispirited.
Seth: His wife passed away some six months back. The loss may have been too much for his mind to bear. His love and devotion for his wife were well known among the knights.
Eirika: ......
Seth: Now, he sits alone in the king’s former bedchambers. He makes no effort to govern. No one is allowed to enter the chambers, and he takes no meals.
Eirika: What could he possibly be doing?
Seth: I do not know. The spies had no insight into his behavior. He does nothing to deal with the dark creatures and bandits roaming the land. Reports say all of Renais is engulfed in chaos. Region after region is revolting, and Orson’s reign is already crumbling. Left alone, it may very well collapse under the weight of its own neglect.
Ephraim: We cannot allow the situation to reach that point. We’re going home, Eirika. We’re going to the castle.
Eirika: I hear you, Ephraim.
 
Myrrh: Um, Ephraim?
Ephraim: What is it, Myrrh?
Myrrh: I-I will fight with you. Now that Selena has returned my dragonstone to me... I’ll do what I can until its power runs out. Let’s take back your home.
Eirika: Are you sure about this?
Myrrh: For the two of you... I simply want to help.
Ephraim: All right. I understand. But you must make me a promise. You are never to stray from our sides. Got that?
Myrrh: Of course...
 
Orson: What is it, Monica? You seem so happy today. Of COURSE I know what today is. I’d never forget your birthday! I have a present for you, dear. I think you’ll like it....
 
Guard: You know something? That Orson... He gives me the creeps. What do you think he’s doing back there? I’ve heard lots of bizarre rumors from the master of the mess hall. ...Do you think he needs help? Could he be dangerous?
Guard: I don’t care. I’m here for the money. As long as I get paid, I’m happy. But on the subject of rumors, have you heard the stories of the secret treasure? There’s supposed to be some fabulous wealth hidden in Castle Renais. I tell you, if I find it, I’m gone.
 
Riev: Heh heh heh
Orson: ?
 
Riev: It does my heart good to see you looking so happy, Orson. See what joy your treachery has brought you? I told you treason would be sweet.
Orson: Get out. This is Monica and my place. I will not have our home disturbed by anyone. I did as you asked. I betrayed Renais. My promise has been kept.
Riev: Heh heh heh?How long are you going to continue this nonsense? Eirika and Ephraim have joined forces. Even now, their united forces march toward the capital, toward you.
Orson: Eirika?
Riev: You can’t imagine they’ll forgive you for your treachery, can you? I expect the sin of your betrayal has shattered you entire family’s name. And after all you did to free your wife from the cold clutches of the grave?It’s a shame she’ll be sent back there dangling from the hangman’s noose.
Orson: No! That can’t happen–
Riev: Heh heh heh! Oh, but it can, and it will. Unless you do something to stop it. You understand what is required, don’t you? You have your orders, Orson. Heh heh heh
 
Orson: ...Monica, I’m sorry. I have something I must do. Please wait for me here. Oh, darling, don’t look so sad. I’ll be back soon, and then I’ll never leave. I must do this to protect our happiness. You understand that, don’t you? All right then. I’ll be back.
 
Lyon: ?..
Riev: Heh heh heh! He believes that thing is his wife! Aren’t people amusing?
Lyon: Urr? Why? This terrible? Uh! Urr? gaa? Ahh
Riev: Oh my, your nasty little illness rearing its ugly little head again? There’s no need to worry. The pain will pass shortly. Leave everything to your humble servant, Riev. Heh heh heh!

Fighter: Huh? Who do you think you are? These are the chambers of Orson, steward of Renais. There's no place here for a street urchin like you, boy.
Soldier: You... You fool! This is Prince Lyon!
Fighter: What? This whelp is... I-I beg your forgiveness!
Lyon: ...... It's all right. I'm not sort of person others hold in esteem...

Fighter: ...Who in the world is that? What a creepy-looking man.
Soldier: Shh... He can hear you.
Fighter: You want to talk about creepy, that Orson's the one who chills my hide. What do you think he's doing back there? I've heard a lot of bizarre rumors from the master of the mess hall. ...Do you think he needs help? Could he be dangerous?
Soldier: I don't care. I'm here for the money. As long as I get paid, I'm happy. But on the subject of rumors, have you heard the stories of the secret treasure? There's supposed to be some fabulous wealth hidden in Castle Renais. I tell you, if I find it, I'm gone.

Orson: What is it, Monica? You seem so happy today. Of COURSE I know what today is. I'd never forget your birthday! I have a present for you, dear. I think you'll like it...
Lyon: Orson.
Orson: ......
Lyon: Do you still recognize me, Orson, or are you entirely lost to this world? Yes, it's me, Prince Lyon. I'm the one to whom you are indebted for resurrecting your beloved wife.
Orson: ...Get out. This is Monica and my place.[sic] I will not have our home disturbed by anyone. I did as you asked. I betrayed Renais. My promise has been kept.
Lyon: Yes, and I'm very grateful to you. I came by today to offer you a piece of advice. Nothing more. Ephraim is coming, Orson. He's on his way here to steal the happiness you two share.
Orson: Prince Ephraim?
Lyon: That's right, Orson. And he's angry. I don't think he'll forgive you for betraying Renais. You've done so much to free your wife from the grave. It's a shame she'll die with you.
Orson: No! That can't happen--
Lyon: That's all I have to say to you. What you do now is up to you.

@Boss 
Orson: ...I won’t let you come between us. Monica and I will live here happily together. Forever...
 
Orson: Monica...

%Eirika,Orson
Eirika: Orson... Why would you betray us?
Orson: ...Princess Eirika. If anyone could understand my feelings, it might be you. For the one I love... I betrayed everything. My country, my lord and master... Everything...

%Ephraim,Orson 
Orson: Prince Ephraim... You never did know when to quit. Renais is already lost. It's too late...
Ephraim: Orson... You will move from that place. That is my father's seat. It is his throne... You've no right to sit there.

%Seth,Orson
Orson: Seth... So you've come, have you?
Seth: Sir Orson.
Orson: You're an impressive knight, Seth. You would sacrifice your life for king and country. Not even a moment's pause. It's a pitiful, unrewarding life, through and through.
Seth: It is my charge. It is my hope. Sir Orson... Prepare yourself.

@End 
Seth: Prince Ephraim, Princess Eirika. The castle has been secured. And...
Ephraim: What is it?
Seth: ...This way. This is the room Orson was holed up in.
 
Monica: ...Darling...
Ephraim: You, you’re Orson’s...
Eirika: ......
Monica: Darling. Darling. Darling...darling...darling...darling...
Ephraim: ...What?! This...is horrible...
Eirika: ......Oh!
Ephraim: This same magic was used to control Emperor Vigarde. She’s already dead, and her corpse was used to...
Eirika: Who? Who could...
Ephraim: You needn’t look any longer, Eirika. Let’s go outside.
Monica: Darling. Darling...darling...
 
Seth: ...You can’t say this thing is truly alive anymore. I’ll...
Ephraim: No... I’ll do it. ...The two of them spent every day in here, did they? Orson was mad. But I think he was happy...
 
Ephraim: We’ve finally made it back. Yet...
Eirika: Mmm... We can repair the castle, and what was stolen, we can do without. But the wounds and suffering inflicted upon the people of Renais...
Ephraim: It’s too late to undo their pain. Once I become king, I must set our country right. I doubt the people will give me a warm reception, though. I did abandon them. All I can do is try to win back their trust, no matter how long it takes...
 
Seth: Princess Eirika, Prince Ephraim. You should look outside.
Ephraim: Outside?
 
People: Prince Ephraim! Princess Eirika! The king has returned! Our king! Glory to Renais! Long live King Ephraim!
Ephraim: ......
Seth: ...They’re not cheering for you. They cheer because Orson’s misrule is at an end. They cheer the possibility of a better tomorrow, not the deeds we did today. But how will the hearts of the people move tomorrow and the next day? That is for you to decide.
Ephraim: I will not let their hopes and dreams be shattered again. I will be king. Like my father before me, I will dedicate myself to their happiness.
Eirika: And I will do all I can to help, Ephraim.
 
Seth: Prince Ephraim, Princess Eirika. Before Renais fell, King Fado entrusted me with this message: Raise the twins?bracelets in the hall of kings. The seal will be broken. The resting place of the Sacred Stone will be revealed...?br>
Ephraim: I understand.
Eirika: So we’re supposed to raise our bracelets over our heads, right?
Ephraim: Let’s try it, Eirika.
Eirika: I’m ready, Ephraim.
 
Ephraim: This is the Stone of Renais...
Eirika: Yes. This is one of the five stones that defeated the Demon King.
Ephraim: If Lyon had acquired our bracelets, the stone would have been destroyed by now. Together, we protected the only power that can help us stop Lyon’s insanity.
Eirika: Yes. It’s the only hope left to us. Hope for you and me, and the last true hope for peace...
Ephraim: Let’s get back, Eirika.
Eirika: ...Huh? Brother, look! Our bracelets, they’re...
Ephraim: What is this? Are they reacting to the light of the stone? Eirika’s Lunar Brace and Ephraim’s Solar Brace glow in response to the Sacred Stone. With the power of the bracelets, the twins can now change classes.
 
Eirika: I can’t believe the bracelets contain so much power...
Ephraim: I wonder if Father anticipated all of this long ago. When I was growing up, I never thought about becoming king. I only wanted to be a good soldier, a good warrior. The best on the battlefield. Father never understood what I wanted, but... I never understood him, either.
Eirika: ......
Ephraim: It was the same when Grado invaded Renais. I should have stayed home to defend the kingdom... Instead, I raced off to fight for personal glory.
Eirika: Brother... I don’t think you know how well Father understood your feelings. When I last saw him, he was concerned for nothing but our safety...
 
Seth: Eirika is correct. King Fado asked after your exploits every day. He always told me what a fine king you would one day make.
Ephraim: Father...
Seth: Now Prince Ephraim, Princess Eirika. Please follow me. The Sacred Twins of Renais should be near the stone’s reliquary.
 
Seth: Ah, here we go. This lance can only be one of the Sacred Twins of Renais. Please, Prince Ephraim, take this sacred relic and feel its weight.
Ephraim: So this is one of our Sacred Twin relics, is it? I’ve never seen them. Look, there’s a name inscribed here. Siegmund, the Flame Lance.
 
Seth: And this blade is sister to the lance, the other Sacred Twin of legend. Princess Eirika, if you would?
Eirika: Of course. There’s a name carved here as well. Sieglinde, the Thunder Blade...
 
^start
Eirika: These are the ancient weapons of our ancestors–the weapons of heroes. They were enshrined generations ago, to be used only by the king... and only in times of dire need. Such an awful power they possess, and yet we need them to restore peace. I’ve seen enough of the horrors of war, but I can’t turn my back on it. If we merely turn our eyes away, we surrender our world to atrocity. And so, I must fight. I’ll do whatever I must do to bring back the peace we once knew.

Ephraim: These are the ancient weapons of our forefathers--the weapons of heroes. They were enshrined generations ago, to be used only by the king... I don't know if this is a burden I'm capable of bearing... but I do know that this is no time to curse my fate. I will fight. For my father, for my country, and for my people.
^end
 
^start
L’Arachel: What is happening? Have you found the Sacred Stone?
Eirika: Yes. Here it is...
L’Arachel: Wow! It truly is spectacular. This goes some way to brighten the dark shadows that loom over us.
Innes: Our countries? Sacred Stones have been shattered by Grado’s men. The Stone of Renais is our last remaining weapon.
L’Arachel: No, it’s not. You have forgotten the stone of my beloved Rausten. Remember, there were five Sacred Stones for our five nations. The Stones of Grado, Frelia, and Jehanna are gone, but hope is not. We have the Stone of Renais, after all, and that of Rausten is safe. Our road is clear, my friends. I must guide you to Rausten.
Eirika: You’re right. L’Arachel, we’re counting on you to lead the way.
L’Arachel: Of course. And you will all be welcome to stay in the palace. And, Eirika, you shall be my guest in my own private quarters! Let us be on our way.

L'Arachel: What is happening? Have you found the Sacred Stone?
Ephraim: We've found it. Here it is.
L'Arachel: Wow! It truly is spectacular. This goes some way to brighten the dark shadows that loom over us.
Innes: Our countries' Sacred Stones have been shattered by Grado's men. The Stone of Renais is our last remaining weapon.
L'Arachel: No, it's not. You have forgotten the Stone of my beloved Rausten. Remember, there were five Sacred Stones for our five nations. The stones of Grado, Frelia and Jehanna are gone, but hope is not. We have the Stone of Renais, after all, and that of Rausten is safe. Our road is clear, my friends. I must guide you to Rausten.
Ephraim: Lead the way, L'Arachel.
L'Arachel: Of course. And you will all be welcome to stay in the palace.
^end
/***EOF***/
@Opening 
Ephraim leads the group to Za'albul Marsh in search of the missing Myrrh. They learn from soldiers and villagers that Myrrh had been captured by General Selena, one of Grado's commanders. She was last seen heading east. To regain their companion, the group will now be forced to fight. Ephraim steels his heart to the reality that he must face Selena.

@Intro 
Selena: So this is a dragonstone... The description was accurate. It looks like an ordinary gemstone. If only His Majesty hadn't ordered me to bring this to the capital immediately... I've heard reports that Prince Ephraim and a Frelian army have landed nearby. If I didn't have those blasted restrictive orders, I could--
???: ...Return it...
Selena: What?
Myrrh: The stone... Please. Return it to me.
Selena: You... You're--
Myrrh: Return the stone to me... Please...I'll do anything.
Selena: Why do you want the stone? Who are you? You're not from Grado, that's for sure.
Myrrh: Without the stone, I... Please, give it back to me.
Selena: Answer my questions!
Myrrh: My name is Myrrh. I come from Darkling Woods. I was betrayed, and my stone was taken from me. I was imprisoned, caged, to be transported somewhere. Prince Ephraim came to my rescue. I've been traveling in his care ever since.
Selena: You're with Ephraim? I can't let you leave. Maybe I should take you back to the capital with me.
Myrrh: Wait... You're from Grado? Tell me, has anyone around you--Have you noticed any changes in the people around you recently?
Selena: Changes? What do you mean by that?
Myrrh: Anyone near you... Has anyone been transformed, either in spirit or demeanor? Does anyone act in such a way as to appear a different person altogether?
Selena: .......How could you know...
Myrrh: The darkness is to blame. I've come here to stop it.
Selena: ...You will tell me more. If I find you are lying, I will punish you. Do you understand?
Myrrh: Yes. Are you ready? I will tell you everything I know.

Selena: ...... ...I see. Myrrh, I think I understand everything you've told me.
Myrrh: Good.
Selena: But I cannot believe it. How can I allow myself to believe it? If it's true, then... then His Majesty is already--
Myrrh: Dame Selena... What's that?
Selena: It is a fluorspar... His Majesty presented it to me when I was promoted to general. This gemstone is proof of my commission. It's one of Grado's treasures... I received it years ago, but I remember that day like it was yesterday. His Majesty smiled so kindly. His voice was filled with dignity and affection...
Myrrh: Dame Selena, you love your emperor, don't you?
Selena: What are you--
Myrrh: I can see it. Dame Selena, I can see how much you treasure...
Selena: .......His Majesty is most compassionate. You see, I'm a commoner. I was raised in a desolate, impoverished village. My family couldn't afford our taxes. No one could. We were desperate. Some of us considered...horrible things to make enough money to survive winter. Then, supplies began to arrive. We were told they came from the emperor himself. He sent them to us, a poor frontier town who couldn't even afford to pay taxes.
Myrrh: .......
Selena: Neighboring kingdoms must have thought the emperor mad, I can only guess. But His Majesty did not care about his standing among kings. He cared for his people. He saved us.
Myrrh: .......
Selena: That spring, I went to the capital and became a soldier, then a knight. I wanted to dedicate my life to the emperor who had saved it. I felt I understood his dream. I felt I shared his vision...
Myrrh: Dame Selena...
Selena: Myrrh, this wave of dark energy you spoke of... Can its evil really change a person that completely?
Myrrh: Yes... All trace of this person would be consumed...destroyed.
Selena: How can the process be reversed?
Myrrh: ...I'm sorry. That is...impossible.
Selena: ...I see.
Soldier: Dame Selena. Enemy troops are heading this way! We await your orders.
Selena: Understood. Tell the men we meet them head on.

Selena: Myrrh. I release you. Return to Prince Ephraim's side.
Myrrh: Dame Selena...
Selena: I apologize, but I cannot return your dragonstone to you. I vowed never again to fail in my duty to His Majesty. If you want the dragonstone back, tell Ephraim he must defeat me.
Myrrh: But that's--
Selena: Go now! This place will soon run red! All troops to arms! For the glory of Grado!

Seth: Prince Ephraim, the Grado troops are lining up to the fore. Their commander is a Grado general... It's Selena Fluorspar.
L’Arachel: Selena... I've heard she wields the power of the thunderstorm...that she uses its might to attack from afar without mercy.
Seth: Prince Ephraim, I urge you to exercise caution when faced with such magic.

@Battle 
Gerik: Prince Innes said they would be around here somewhere. Now where in the blazes is this Ephraim?
Tethys: From this distance, I can't tell which army is Frelia and which Grado. We'll have to move in closer if we're to sort this all out.
Myrrh: Ah...
Gerik: Hm?
Tethys: Oh, what an adorable girl. It's all right. Come here...
Gerik: You're a bit young to be on your own. Did you get lost then?
Myrrh: .......
Tethys: There's no reason to be afraid. This fellow's a bit scary to look at, but he's not so bad.
Gerik: Come now... Hmph. But she is right, you know. If you keep looking so scared, you're likely to hurt my feelings.
Tethys: Please, little one, tell us your name.
Myrrh: I am Myrrh. I wish to return to Ephraim's side.
Gerik: Ephraim? We're supposed to be guarding someone by that name... Can you help us find him?
Myrrh: Yes... He's over there.
Gerik: Hey! Hold on!

Myrrh: Ephraim.
Ephraim: Myrrh! You're safe. Thank goodness.
Myrrh: Ephraim... I'm sorry. I... I...
Ephraim: Myrrh...
Myrrh: It's because I forced you to bring me with you... I didn't want to be a burden to you any longer. But all I've done is made you worry... I'm...sorry...
Ephraim: It's fine, Myrrh. I'm the one who should be sorry. I failed in my promise to watch over you. The battle's about to begin. I want you to move to the rear.
Myrrh: Ephraim... Those aren't bad people. I spoke to one, and she listened--
Ephraim: All right. I'll do my best to persuade them to join us.

@Recruit-Talk 
%Ephraim,Gerik
Gerik: Are you Ephraim?
Ephraim: Yes, I am, but...
Gerik: I'm Gerik, mercenary commander. Prince Innes bought our swords and sent us here to join you. Any problem with that?
Ephraim: Innes sent you?
Gerik: Yeah, and the prince had a message for you as well. He said, "I've no need of assistance, Ephraim, but I'm sure you do." That's all. I figured you would know what he was talking about.
Ephraim: Well, that's definitely from Innes. Regardless, your aid is welcome. Please join us in our fight.

%Marisa,Gerik
Marisa: Chief.
Gerik: Oh, Marisa! So Ewan found you after all, eh? Sorry for the trouble. Appears the guild made an error. Blast it all. I should have double-checked everything myself.
Marisa: No worries. I’m with you now.
Gerik: Have you taken any wounds? They send you all the way to Taizel, after all. What ill luck that was...
Marisa: I’m fine. I’ll fight at your side.
Gerik: Ah, that’s comforting. We’ve been hired to guard a Prince Ephraim. Before we do, though, we’d better take care of these enemy troops, huh? Let’s move, Marisa.
Marisa: Understood.

@Battle-Talk
%Ewan,Tethys
Tethys: Ewan, you’ve completed the task you were given, haven’t you? This is a dangerous place. Please, go wait at the inn. I’ll be there to collect you as soon as I’m able.
Ewan: No way! I want to fight, too. I’ve become friends with Prince Ephraim, you know? We’re going to take out the big, bad evil empire.
Tethys: Wait just a minute, Ewan! Ah! Ooh, that troublemaker.

@Visit 
Woman: You must have gone through a lot to make it here. Did you come to warn us about the fighting going on? Thanks so much. Here, please take this staff. Oh, go on. Don’t be shy.

Girl: Dame Selena often visits our village when she’s on patrol. She even came to our aid when we were attacked by bandits. ...... Please, I beg of you. Don’t hurt Dame Selena.

@Boss 
Selena: Fluorspar... His Majesty gave me this name. Therefore, I...

%Ephrain,Selena
Ephraim: Are you Selena?
Selena: Indeed I am. And you are Prince Ephraim.
Ephraim: I know you've spoken with Myrrh. Withdraw your troops. You must know the emperor is not rational!
Selena: Yes, I know.
Ephraim: Then why? Why do we still fight?
Selena: I am a general of the empire. His majesty's word is law.
Ephraim: That's ridiculous. You know the emperor is deranged, and yet you follow his orders?! Is that truly loyalty?
Selena: Prince Ephraim, you cannot understand. I know the path I'm given is foolish. Yet I am a knight, and I have no other.
Ephraim: Selena, please! I have no wish to see you die here!
Selena: Me? Die? Prince Ephraim, you misunderstand me. I have no intention of dying. Madness though it may be, I will be the one doing the killing today.

%Duessel,Selena
Duessel: Well met, Selena.
Selena: General Duessel... I must offer you my apologies. I called you a traitor, but I was mistaken. Your loyalty never wavered, not for an instant.
Duessel: ......
Selena: And yet you must know that I have no intention of withdrawing. So let us not waste words. Let us settle this with steel, my friend.
Duessel: That's how it is to be, then? One of us dies by the other's hands?
Selena: Yes. It's the path I've chosen. I have no regrets.
Duessel: I see... Well. I, too, must follow the path that I have chosen.
Selena: Very well.

@End 
Myrrh: Dame Selena...
Ephraim: .......General Selena possessed a curious stone. Myrrh, is this the dragonstone you lost?
Myrrh: Yes, it is. But I'm saddened by its return. My dragonstone is here and yet... My heart is heavy with remorse...
Ephraim: Myrrh...
Myrrh: Ephraim, can you tell me why this had to happen? Dame Selena was a good person. She was filled with joy when she spoke of the emperor. Why did Dame Selena have to die? Why did we have to take up arms against her?
Ephraim: I'm sorry... If I could have convinced her to lay down her arms, I would have. It was simply not possible. I had no choice. She had to die. I know you don't approve, but you must know I have my reasons.
Myrrh: My apologies... Ephraim, I... I am not seeking to blame you. It's just that...I grieve for her.
Ephraim: .......
Myrrh: I ventured out of the forest, chasing after that dark energy. I thought perhaps that I could negate its evil force. Is your cause so different from Selena's? How many good people must die alongside the wicked?
Ephraim: Myrrh...
Myrrh: What can we do to end this without any more good people dying?
Ephraim: I don't have any answer for you. But I will continue on toward the capital, and perhaps I will find one there. I will learn the truth behind this madness.
/***EOF***/
@Opening 
General Duessel tells them of the enigmatic Dark Stone. The product of Grado's research into the dark arts, the Dark Stone possesses power far beyond that of the Sacred Stones. According to the rumors swirling about, Vigarde's descent into madness coincides with the creation of the Dark Stone. Ephraim must confirm the existence of the Dark Stone. He decides to travel to Grado by sea. Midway through their passage, however, an eerie fog begins to form...

@Intro 
Selena: Your Majesty... I have returned.
Vigarde: Selena... You coward. Why did you not execute Duessel?
Selena: Forgive me... It was that Valter...
Vigarde: Selena. Duessel has betrayed us. He has bent his knee to Ephraim. Are you a traitor, too?
Selena: Never! I am Your Majesty's vassal. I am yours, body and soul. Your Majesty, please, another chance, I beg you! Any order you see fit to issue, I will complete!
Vigarde: ......
Lyon: .......Selena. I have something for you. If I may, Father?
Vigarde: Yes.
Selena: What is it, Prince Lyon?
Lyon: I want you to go to Za'albul Marsh and retrieve something for me. It is a dragonstone, a very special kind of rock.
Selena: A dragonstone?
Lyon: That's right. It's very rare. There are only two in the entire world. I've heard rumors of a collector there who has one for sale. It looks like nothing but a common gemstone. I need it for my research. If I have that stone....my... Urg...gaa...
Selena: My prince, are you all right?
Lyon: I'm fine. Don't worry about me. Now, please, find me the dragonstone. Will you approve my request, Father?
Vigarde: Yes. Do as my son asks.
Selena: Yes, understood. Your Majesty, I...would like to renew my oath of service to you here today. I pledge that I shall never again falter in my duty to you or to Grado. I beg your leave, my lord.
Lyon: .......

Myrrh: .......
Ephraim: Is this the first time you've seen the ocean, Myrrh?
Myrrh: Yes. It's so blue, so vast.
Ephraim: It is at that. You know, this is my first passage on a ship. I've never appreciated just how enormous the sea is.
Myrrh: Really? I'd never have guessed you hadn't sailed before. You seem so calm.
Ephraim: If I'm to lead us, I can't allow any weakness to show through. I must appear competent and capable at all times, you understand?
Myrrh: Ephraim... Um...
???: Prince Ephraim.
Ephraim: Excuse me, Myrrh. We'll have to continue this later.
Myrrh: Ah, all right.

Ephraim: What is it, Seth?
Seth: There's a ship following us, just on the edge of the fog. Should I ready the company for battle?
Ephraim: Is it a Grado vessel?
Seth: It's hard to say. The fog makes it difficult to see clearly. However, her crew seems not to be...human.

Riev: Heh heh heh... Rise and rage, my precious children of darkness. Ruin the wood and ride the sea! Drown your foes, and devour their flesh! Come celebrate the glorious rebirth of your lord and master, the Demon King! Heh, heh, heh.

@Battle 
Ephraim: There! The enemy is closing. Prepare for battle!

Ephraim: They've pulled alongside us... Those creatures are trying to board! That's fine--it'll bring 'em within reach of my lance. Push them back! Board their ship and seize the blasted thing!

Ephraim: Another ship!? Stay calm, everyone! We take the fight to them!

L’Arachel: Friends of justice! Allies of righteousness and order! Know that I, L’Arachel, have arrived! Now, I shall purge the seas of this vile vessel of villainy!
Dozla: Gwah ha ha! Nice alliteration, Princess L’Arachel!
L’Arachel: ...... Hm? I didn’t hear Rennac’s voice. How very odd. Dozla, where has Rennac run off to this time?
Dozla: Hmmm... He was with us at mealtime before we boarded, but...
L’Arachel: That man can be such a distraction. ...Oh well, never mind! Let’s get started destroying these agents of chaos!
Dozla: Gwah ha ha! Leave it to me!

@Recruit-Talk 
%Ephraim,L'Arachel
Ephraim: You are...
L’Arachel: Fear not, O weary traveler, for I am here to save you! I grant you the favor of my divine aid.
Ephraim: Who are you? What are you doing here?
L’Arachel: Ah! Can it be? Do you not know the tales of my deeds? Have you not heard of the beauteous young woman traveling to defeat evil?
Ephraim: No, I haven’t.
L’Arachel: Oh...
Ephraim: What is it?
L’Arachel: It’s nothing... Please pay me no mind. I just feel a bit like being alone and weeping for a while.
Ephraim: What? No, you can’t... This is no place for crying. I’m sure you’ve noticed, but we’re under attack by monsters. If you can do anything to help, we would appreciate it.
L’Arachel: That’s a good idea! I’ll do it. Now, I want you to observe closely my graceful actions!

%L'Arachel,Dozla 
L’Arachel: Dozla.
Dozla: Yes? What is it, Princess L’Arachel?
L’Arachel: We’re going to be working together with those people. I want you to stay close by. Are you ready?
Dozla: Gwah ha ha! Ready as always!

@End 
Seth: We've destroyed the remaining monsters. The ship appears to be empty.
L'Arachel: And once again, the forces of righteousness prevail!
Ephraim: Thank you. We owe our victory to you.
L’Arachel: Don't mention it. My name is L'Arachel. I'm on a never-ending quest to defeat evil in the name of virtue and order. Wait... Your face has a certain familiarity. I recently met a young woman who greatly resembles you.
Ephraim: Do you mean, Eirika? She's my sister.
L’Arachel: Eirika? Isn't that the name of the princess of Renais? And you have a very regal air about you yourself, don't you?
Ephraim: My name is Ephraim, Prince of Renais. We're fighting to end Grado's invasion. To be honest...

L’Arachel: Oh my! In that case, I must accompany you.
Ephraim: Do you understand that we alone are facing all the armies of Grado? We face untold numbers, and our odds of success are embarrassingly small.
L’Arachel: You clearly do not know who I am. Do not be startled by what I'm about to disclose to you... I am the princess of Rausten, theocracy of the righteous!
Ephraim: You're the princess of Rausten? Hm. You certainly don't have the bearing of a commoner, but...
L’Arachel: Ah, of course. My natural nobility gives me away every time. Truth to tell, dire circumstances have led me to begin this journey in secret. Prince Ephraim of Renais, please by assured that Rausten is your ally. Let us stand together against the villainous Grado Empire!

L’Arachel: ...Well, that's that, Dozla. We will now be traveling with Ephraim and his companions.
Dozla: Gwah ha ha! Understood! For you, Princess L'Arachel, I would dive headlong into a sea of evil! Why, I'd even tie myself up with ropes and chains first!
L’Arachel: Such fabulous devotion! You are truly my most loyal attendant. Let us be off then.
Dozla: Gwah ha ha!
/***EOF***/
@Opening 
The Caer Pelyn Range... According to Ewan, a little-known passage to Jehanna lies there, hidden within its cracked red bedrock and knife-edged peaks. To avoid Carcino and combat, Eirika’s troops take the mountain path. They begin climbing higher and higher toward Caer Pelyn. Unbeknownst to the group, hordes of dark creatures now roam the peaks.

@Intro 
Ewan: We’re almost there! Come on! My teacher lives just up ahead.
Eirika: Slow down, Ewan. Let’s stick together.
Innes: ...This fog’s getting thick. I don’t expect any more surprise attacks, but that doesn’t mean we–
Ewan: Quick worrying, mister! You’re gonna get left behind.
Innes: ...Don’t speak to me, boy. I don’t tolerate insolence.
Eirika: Innes, he’s only a child. There’s no reason to be so rude. He is helping us after all.
Ewan: That’s right. Without me, you’d never get where you’re going. So come on already!
 
Innes: Stop. Don’t take another step.
 
Ewan: Huh? That’s gonna make it awfully hard to get where we need to go.
Innes: ...What do you know about that fort? It looks like it’s been abandoned for some time. Is anyone using it?
Ewan: Nope. It’s really run-down. Nobody ever goes there. It’s been empty for ages. I’ve been inside, so I know.
Innes: Is that right? Then what’s that sound, and where is it coming from?
Ewan: Huh? What sound? Hey, you’re right... I do hear a weird noise. You could hear that? Neat! You’ve got really good hearing. I wonder what it is...
Eirika: There it is again. Prince, is this...
Innes: Eirika.
Eirika: Yes?
Innes: Get your troops ready. Tell them to prepare for battle... We’ve been spotted. Monsters are coming.
Tethys: Ewan, it’s dangerous here. Get behind me.
Ewan: No way. I’m gonna fight too.
Tethys: No. You’re too young. You’re not ready for this. Are you going to do as I say or not? I don’t know what I would do if you were to get injured.
Ewan: Oh...OK.
 
L’Arachel: What spacious chambers. Hm... A bit musty, but I like it. I’ve decided. We’ll bed here for the night. I do wonder where Rennac disappeared to, though. I told him not to wander off, but...
Dozla: Hmph! Lady L’Arachel, this could be trouble.
L’Arachel: What is it, Dozla?
Dozla: Look there! Through that break in the fog... Looks like we’ve got some nasty creatures running ’bout this place.
L’Arachel: ...I can’t see a thing. But this can be nothing but good fortune shining down on us again. Losing our way in the mountains and running into these abominations? There can be no doubt: we were brought here to destroy these foul things! Come, Dozla! We fight!
Dozla: Gwah ha ha! My heart cries out for battle!

@Recruit-Talk 
%Eirika,L'Arachel
Eirika: You... L’Arachel!
L’Arachel: Hello! So it’s true! Blessings do come in threes!
Eirika: L’Arachel, this place is dangerous. You should find safe haven elsewhere.
L’Arachel: Oh, you needn’t worry about us. As you well know, my divine mission is to purge the land of these obscenities. I will show you the splendor that is L’Arachel in action! Bear witness!
Eirika: If you insist. At least let us join forces for the time being.
 
%L'Arachel,Dozla
L’Arachel: Dozla.
Dozla: Gwah ha ha! What is it, Lady L’Arachel?
L’Arachel: We’re going to join these good people and eradicate these unclean monstrosities.
Dozla: Sounds fun! What would you have me to do?
L’Arachel: Oh, just carry on in your normal manner: destroy, destroy, destroy. But do be sure to enjoy yourself.
Dozla: Gwah ha ha! I am your obedient servant!

@End 
Eirika: Thank you, L’Arachel.
L’Arachel: Please, speak nothing of it. It is heaven’s dictate that I come here to cleanse this charming place of monsters. What’s important is– Oh my! I just realized I have not yet had the honor of your name.
Eirika: Oh, you’re right. How strange... We’ve met so often now that I had assumed you already... Please forgive my lack of manners. My name is Eirika.
Seth: Milady...
Eirika: It’s all right, Seth. She’s clearly not our enemy.
L’Arachel: Eirika... Aha! So you must be Princess Eirika of Renais! It is simply an honor to meet you. And how strange that we should meet again in this place. You must be lost as well. This continent is so confusing.
Eirika: Um, yes. Actually, we’re not lost at all. You see...
 
L’Arachel: Is that so! Well, clearly, I must be allowed to accompany you.
Eirika: You want to travel with us? I appreciate your offer, but our journey is far too perilous. I do not wish to pull you into this madness.
L’Arachel: No, no, no. There can be no doubt that we were sent here to aid you. It is all part of the grand design. I, L’Arachel, shall play my role and fulfill my divine duties. This I swear!
Seth: Are you sure this is wise, Princess?
Eirika: Don’t worry, Seth.
 
L’Arachel: ...Well, that’s that, Dozla. You and I are now traveling with Eirika and her companions.
Dozla: Gwah ha ha! I understand. For you, Lady L’Arachel, I would do absolutely anything! I would run to the ends of this world and dive into a sea of evil!
L’Arachel: How very like you, my dear, dedicated Dozla! So noble! Come! We’re off!
Dozla: Gwah ha ha!
 
Ewan: Teeeaaaacher... Hellooooooo... That’s strange. He’s not here. Must be out wandering again.
Eirika: He’s out? That poses a problem. Do you know when he’ll return?
Ewan: Hmmm... I don’t know. He often goes out and looks for people in need.
Saleh: ...I believe I told you it would be best to stay away.
 
Saleh: I’ve been charged with a mission and must depart again soon.
Ewan: Ah! Teacher!
Eirika: Y-you... We’ve met before, haven’t we? You were looking for someone...
Saleh: ...Oh, yes. And now we meet again.
Ewan: These people say they want to go through Caer Pelyn. I could guide them myself, but I thought it might be better if you went, too. That’s why I brought them here. What do you say? Will you guide them?
Saleh: ......
Eirika: Would you, please?
Saleh: ...Very well. I’m heading there now. If you need to go to Caer Pelyn, you’re free to follow me.
Eirika: You don’t mind?
Saleh: We have little interest in the outside world, but we do not refuse travelers. I should warn you: the road is not easy, and you look very weary. You should rest a night before attempting the mountains.
Innes: We do need rest, it’s true. We are all exhausted from our encounter with those creatures. We must give our men time to heal, or they’ll be useless in an emergency.
Ewan: It’s settled then. I’ll go on ahead and let the elder know we’re coming. See? Even when there’s no fighting to be done, I’m still useful!
 
Eirika: No, wait! ...He’s gone. I wonder if he’ll be all right.
Innes: Idiotic boy. I understand his need to be helpful, but...
Saleh: Ewan knows this land well. You needn’t worry about him. We’ll depart at sunrise. I suggest you all get some rest.
 
Glen: Princess Eirika of Renais. Hold.
Eirika: Who? You.. You’re General Glen of Grado. We met once in the capital, didn’t we? You were very kind to me. However, if you’re here now, I have to assume this means...
Glen: Yes, it does. I wish our reunion could come under different circumstances. Eirika, I must tell you, I come here on the direct orders of the emperor. I’m to bring to justice the rebel army leader who’s been terrorizing Carcino. It’s you, Eirika. They say you’ve been murdering innocents.
Eirika: What? Wait! What do you mean? I...
Glen: ...If you have something to say, I would hear it. I know all too well that Grado has robbed you of your homeland, but even so... I do not believe revenge could drive a woman like you to such depths. And yet... here you are in Carcino with a small army under your command. And the emperor tells us that you massacred everyone in Port Kiris.
Eirika: That... That’s a lie! I could never...
Glen: Go on.
 
Innes: ...This is ridiculous. Believe what you want. Could one of the legendary Imperial Three honestly be as stupid as this?
Glen: ...What do you mean?
Innes: Carcino betrayed Frelia and set a pack of mercenary dogs to kill me. And you paint Eirika a rebel instigator? It’s an absurd farce. Your emperor commits horrors, and you believe Eirika is a criminal?
Glen: ...What are you saying?
Innes: You truly are blind, aren’t you? You’re one of the Imperial Three, and yet you can’t see your emperor’s plan?
Eirika: That’s enough, Innes. There’s no need to provoke him. General Glen, we’ve told you what we know to be true, what we’ve seen firsthand. We don’t want to fight you... But if you push us, we will drive you back to Grado with your tail between your legs.
Glen: ...I see. You...are more observant than you know. I am ignorant of the emperor’s designs. General Duessel and I both questioned the wisdom of this war. And if you really are innocent of the crimes attributed to you... Why would His Majesty lie to us? I must know the answer.
Eirika: So, you...believe us?
Glen: The Princess Eirika I met long ago was kind and merciful in spirit. You’ve faced relentless hardship, and yet that selfsame spirit remains true. ...Let’s put our fight aside for now. I will learn the truth. Then I will once again perform the duties of my office. If you have lied to me today, I will hound you to the very grave itself.
Eirika: Very well...
 
Valter: Glen. Where do you think you’re going?
Glen: Valter...
Valter: Tsk, tsk. What am I to make of this? Those little birds I saw flitting away into the mountains looked vaguely familiar. What do you suppose would happen if it were known you let Eirika escape?
Glen: Do as you will. I’m returning to the capital. I have questions for the emperor. Clear the path, Valter.
Valter: Hold on now. No reason to rush off, is there? After all, this is where you’re going to die. See?
Glen: ...What are you babbling about?
Valter: Heh heh... We were a grand trio–the Imperial Three: You, Duessel, and me. But my place among you was stolen, and I was exiled from Grado.
Glen: You slaughtered people who had no intention of fighting. The emperor’s punishment was just and warranted.
Valter: Heh heh...heh heh heh... After my fall from glory, only desire kept me alive. Desire for revenge. My hatred burned so fierce that I was only barely able to keep my sanity. That hatred keeps me warm still today. Oh, how it burns...
Glen: ......
Valter: Hear me, Glen, wyvern general of the Imperial Three. I live for battle. I crave it. I have no need for peace. That is why you must die.
 
Glen: Cur! You’re mad!
Valter: A battle between generals... Sends the spirit soaring, eh? Come, Glen! Entertain me! Ha ha ha ha ha ha!
Glen: Urrgh...
 
Valter: Go. The small fish are yours.
 
Valter: Heh heh... This is merely the beginning. Endless battle, war without end... Heh heh... ha hahahahahaha!

/***EOF***/
@Dialogue 
L’Arachel: Ephraim... It is time I must be going. I am still princess of Rausten, after all. There is much to which I must attend. Renais and Rausten are far apart, but that distance can be managed somehow. If you and I were to be betrothed, that is... I wonder if I appear too forward... No, how silly of me!

Myrrh: Ephraim... I must return to Darkling Woods. With my father gone, much responsibility falls on my shoulders. Yet I would ask... May I come and visit you from time to time?

Innes: We of Frelia will do what we can to aid in the restoration of Renais. If you have need of our assistance, you can come to me at any time. And another thing... It...wasn’t such a bad thing, fighting on the same side as you. That’s all. The day will come, though. One day, we will see who is the better.

Eirika: Where are you going, Brother? We’ve endured so much to get home, and now...
Ephraim: I’m sorry, Eirika. I must journey to Grado. I just received word from Seth. In the south, within the empire, there has been an enormous landslide.
Eirika: A landslide?
Ephraim: Yes. Word is it was so great that whole cities were destroyed. They say the damage is so severe, the empire itself is in danger...
Eirika: That’s...
Ephraim: That’s why I must go to Grado. The people are saying this is Grado’s divine punishment... But these are the same citizens Lyon wanted nothing more than to protect. I cannot ignore their plight.
Eirika: Yes, of course not. I will ride with you.
Ephraim: No, you must remain in Renais. Our country is recovering, but we cannot rest easy. Someone must stay to protect the realm.
Eirika: Ephraim... I understand. I will take your place until you return. I will wait for you in Renais, Brother.
Ephraim: I can always depend on you, Eirika. Lyon... I will be king. The type of king we often spoke of... Strong and kind in measure: an ideal king. The people of Renais and Grado are under my protection, and I won’t fail them. Watch and see...

L’Arachel: It is time for me to be on my way, my friends. As the princess of Rausten, I still have many duties to perform. Oh, Princess Eirika... If it please you, I would be ever so delighted if you joined my tea club. I insist that you come. Oh, say you will, won’t you?

Joshua: I’ve much to do here in Jehanna. I’ll start with what can be done and keep going from there. First, I must talk to Mother. She should know that we’ve won, so that she can rest easily.

Innes: We of Frelia will do what we can to aid in the restoration of Renais. If you have need of our assistance, you have but to ask. I seldom trust people who act from purely altruistic motives... But I’ll grant you that friendships are a worthy exception to my distrust.

Eirika: We’ve finally made it home, haven’t we?
Ephraim: Aaah. You must be exhausted after the journey. Shall we rest, Eirika?
Eirika: That would be nice... But first we must seal this away... This stone banished the Demon King. With such power... Do you suppose we could bring back Father and Lyon... That everyone who died in this dreadful war could be–
Ephraim: Eirika.
Eirika: I know, I know. Such things would be– I cannot wish for such things. No matter how it hurts, or rather because it hurts, we must learn to accept sorrow. We must take it into our hearts and tame our grief...
Ephraim: Eirika... Tell me, Sister... If Lyon were here with us, what do you think he would want?
Eirika: What he would want?
Ephraim: Yes. You see, I think I know. It was the reason for his studies. It’s why he wanted to know about the Sacred Stones–or rather the Fire Emblem. Let’s take Lyon’s dreams and fulfill them in his stead. We can do that, can’t we? Without relying on any mystic power?
Eirika: You’re right, Brother, we can. Let us fulfill his dreams. As Lyon wanted, as we all want... So we may live in peace and joy.

Lyon: Oh, are you... I’m... My name is Lyon. Uh-huh. That’s me... The son of the emperor. You’re Prince Ephraim and Princess Eirika from Renais, aren’t you? I heard you were coming, and I’ve been waiting here all day. I’ve always wanted... I don’t have any friends my own age... So, Prince Ephraim... Princess Eirika... What do you say? From now on, let’s be friends...
/***EOF***/
@Intro 
Eirika: ...Hh...hh...
Seth: Perhaps we should rest, milady. Master Saleh, is it much farther?
Saleh: We’re close. It’s only half a day ahead.
Seth: I would ask for a moment’s rest before continuing. We are all exhausted. We can go no farther today.
Eirika: No, Seth. I’ll be fine. We must not be delayed by my weakness.
Innes: Whew... Hah... I didn’t realize we’d be climbing so high.
 
Eirika: Whoops!
Saleh: ...As I warned you before we set out, the footing here can be treacherous.
Innes: Do you people truly live in this place? These barren crags seem unfit for human habitation...
Saleh: Material wealth brings strife. We’ve no need of these things. In this, we are of one mind with the Great Dragon.
Eirika: The Great Dragon?
 
Seth: Ah! Princess Eirika, watch out!
Eirika: More monsters... Master Saleh, do these creatures normally inhabit this region?
Saleh: No... Those things come from Darkling Woods. It’s been a long time since they’ve wandered this far afield. It’s as the elder says... Evil omens take many shapes.
L’Arachel: It looks like those fiends have noticed us as well. We should move, Eirika.

@Battle 
Saleh: I’m concerned for Ewan as well. I’ll go with you. I hope he is safe.
 
Ewan: Hey! Wa-wait a moment. We can work this out... You, uh, aren’t interested in talking, are you? Aaaaaa...
 
Ewan: Where’d all those freaks come from? I’ve got to get back and warn everyone... But... I do wonder if Grandmother is all right.

@Recruit-Visit
Ewan: Oh, Sister!
Tethys: Ewan! Are you all right?
Ewan: Yeah. I tried to fight those monsters. And you know what? I killed four of ’em! With my magic! That’s pretty good, huh?
Tethys: What am I going to do with you? Anyway, it’s not safe here. Come with me, Ewan.
Ewan: ...... You-you don’t believe me... You watch and see. I’ll show you how far I’ve come!
 
Saleh: Ewan... You’re safe.
Ewan: Oh, Teacher! It’s you! You probably had to fight a ton of creatures to get here! You’re the best! I hope I can study with you forever.
Saleh: I’ve told you before... My mission is my life. If you wish to learn magic, you’d be better served by another.
Ewan: No way. I wanna be just like you. Why would I go study somewhere else? Wait... You’ve gotta go out on a mission again, don’t you! Take me with you! I’ve practiced a lot. I can already use all the magic you taught me!
Saleh: ...... Well, you seem quite adamant. All right. You may accompany me. I think being with me might be safer than remaining on your own.
Ewan: Yahoo!
 
Ewan: Ah, hello!
Eirika: Ewan! How wonderful. So you’re safe, are you?
Ewan: Yep. I took care of a whole mess of those things. More of ‘em might show up at any time, so I’ll just follow you to the village. That’s all right, isn’t it?
Eirika: I guess so... It’s probably safer than leaving you here by yourself. Let’s stick together, Ewan.
Ewan: Wahoo!
 
Ewan: You were one of the people with my teacher, weren’t you? You think I can fight at your side? I can use the magic my teacher taught me. Well, what do you say?
 
@Visit 
Woman: I can’t believe monsters have appeared here in the realm of the Great Dragon. What is this world coming to? This staff you help to protect you against the beasts. Please travel safely.

@End 
Grandmother: Saleh? Is that you, Saleh? Tell me, is the Great Dragon well?
Saleh: I’m sorry, Elder. I searched to the west, but I found nothing.
Grandmother: Is that so... Hm? Who’s that with you?
Innes: I am Innes, prince of Frelia. The circumstances of our journey have led us here. We would like to pass through.
Eirika: Please.
Grandmother: Hmmm... We of Caer Pelyn have turned away from the world outside. The Great Dragon alone holds all our honor and esteem. In this place, princes and pauper are equals. Do you have a problem with that?
Innes: ...No. I understand.
Grandmother: Hm... Well then, be welcomed as guests in our homes. I see some of you are injured. You should use this rock moss. We have little beyond what we need, but we will prepare food and bedding. You can rest as long as you like.
Innes: We’ve no wish to trouble you. We’d just as soon pass straight through.
Grandmother: Don’t let your pride drive you to foolishness. That girl there looks like she’s ready to collapse at any moment. She’s ill from the height of the mountain. Saleh, prepare some tea for the lass.
Eirika: Thank you, Elder...
Grandmother: Call me Grandmother, child. That is what the villages call me.
 
Eirika: Uh... Grandmother, may I ask you a question? This Great Dragon...
Grandmother: Ah, the inquisitiveness of youth. Come, lass, listen to my words. The Great Dragon is...a blessing, one that watches over all mankind. Why, in days long past, when the Demon King appeared...
Eirika: Demon King? Are you speaking of the legend of the Sacred Stones? The hero Grado used the power of the five Sacred Stones to defeat and seal away–
Grandmother: No, no, that’s not right at all. Ah, how quickly did mankind forget its debt to the Great Dragon. To hear the story now, one would think humans alone brought about victory. That is a gross mistelling of the tale. Only through the Great Dragon’s strength could the Demon King be sealed away!
Eirika: The Great Dragon and the Demon King...
Grandmother: Mankind may have forgotten its debt, but the Great Dragon never forgets. It watches over the bones of the Demon King in Darkling Woods. It keeps the Demon King’s dark brood from swarming the world of men. The Great Dragon’s vigilance alone has kept us safe from their blind rage.
Eirika: Is that so? I’m... I’m sorry, I never knew...
Grandmother: Hmph. You don’t need to know everything, but you should remember that.
Eirika: Yet, Grandmother, we encountered those creatures on the way here. And they have begun to appear in the land we live in as well. What does this mean?
Grandmother: Ah... You have seen the effects of the omen that has appeared in the south. There is an energy there that has fouled the air and darkened the sky. The Great Dragon left Darkling Woods and went south to investigate. We of the village wished to protect the Great Dragon, so I sent my grandson, Saleh, as long as well. But they became embroiled in battle, and the Great Dragon disappeared. Since that time, there’s been no sign of the Great Dragon either here or abroad. We grew worried and directed Saleh to look for any trace of the Great Dragon. I am worried that the source of that foul energy may be responsible.
Eirika: A foul energy... From the south? Myrrh said something similar to this, too. Is the Great Dragon you speak of...one of the Manakete?
Grandmother: Manakete?!? How dare you speak so of the Great Dragon!
Eirika: I-I’m sorry.
Grandmother: But if you’ve seen the noble Myrrh, perhaps I can proceed more quickly. You see, our Great Dragon took the form of Mistress Myrrh in her travels. And you tell me that you have seen the Great Dragon yourself, lass?
Eirika: Yes. Myrrh was with my brother.
Grandmother: What?! Where is this brother of yours!?
Eirika: He leads a force of men against Grado. Myrrh rides beside him.
Grandmother: Saleh, this is urgent! You must leave for Grado at once and rescue the Great Dragon!
Saleh: Understood. I will...
L’Arachel: Oh, where are you off to? If you’re going to Grado, the swiftest route takes you through Jehanna. It would be to your advantage to join us in our journey for a time. It’s far safer then being on your own.
Saleh: You have a point... Mistress Eirika, protecting the Great Dragon is my duty. Please allow me to travel with you on the road ahead.
 
Innes: We are in your debt, Matron.
Grandmother: Not at all. All of our guidance comes from the Great Dragon. Saleh.
Saleh: Yes, I know. The road to Jehanna lies here.
Eirika: Grandmother, thank you so much for everything.
Grandmother: I know you’ll help the Great Dragon, but please look after Saleh as well. He’s not very personable, but he’s the only grandchild I have.

/***EOF***/
@Opening 
Myrrh returns safely to Ephraim's side. A noble warrior to the end, Selena fought with great honor, never once using Myrrh as a hostage. Ephraim renews his vow to pierce the veil of mystery surrounding the Grado Empire. Selena is added to the list of innocents who Grado must account for. The center of the Grado Empire. Emperor Vigarde should have been here, but...

@Intro 
Ephraim: The Grado capital... It looks like it hasn't changed at all since the last time I was here. Eirika and I came here once long ago with our father. Duessel taught me the lance, and I studied history with Lyon. I never imagined I'd come back here armed for battle.

@Flashback
Lyon: ...And so the hero Grado and his companions used the five Sacred Stones to seal away the evil of the Demon King, and his wicked soul was locked within the Stone of Grado. The Stone of Grado came to be known as the Fire Emblem. To this day, it's kept safe and honored as a national treasure of the empire. ...I think that's about it. For more on Grado's life, read "Founding Emperor Grado." It's comprehensive.
Ephraim: ...It's so thick. ...And the letters are so small.
Lyon: But you have to read it. You don't want Father McGregor to discipline you again.
Ephraim: ...I'm no good with books. The problem is they don't move. I get bored silly. I understand so much better when you explain it to me, Lyon.
Lyon: Yes, but...it's kind of weird to be helping you all the time. It's just that I admire you, Ephraim. I want to be strong, like you--brave and handsome... I've got an idea. Why don't you teach me to wield a lance, Ephraim? I can't let my defeat to Eirika go unchallenged. I look foolish.
Ephraim: It's a deal. We practice tomorrow, though. If you want to beat Eirika, you have to take this seriously.
Lyon: Just go easy on me, all right?

@Intro 
Myrrh: Ephraim... Aaaah!

Ephraim: Another tremor... They happen a lot, don't they? Are you all right, Myrrh?
Myrrh: Yes, I was startled. Ephraim, this place... Did it always shake like this?
Ephraim: Yeah, Grado's been prone to earthquakes for a long time. Tiny tremors like that happen all the time. Don't worry.
Myrrh: Really? Um, Ephraim?
Ephraim: What is it?
Myrrh: I can feel it--from inside the castle, I can feel the darkness. I feel a broad pool of darkness deep within its walls.
Ephraim: Perhaps it's coming from the throne room. That's where Emperor Vigarde, the man who started this, is. Let's go.

Lyon: Father...
Vigarde: .......
Lyon: Father... Have we been foolish? When you died, I couldn't accept the loss... I... If only I'd been stronger... Urgh!
Soldier: Your Majesty! Enemy soldiers are headed this way! Oh, Prince--
Lyon?: ...Hi. What's wrong? Why such an unusual expression on your face? I'd rather you didn't look upon me as though I were some horrid beast.
Soldier: I...I beg your pardon...
Lyon?: Did you say we were under attack? I want all of you to strike the foe. Bring your weapons to bear on Ephraim. Is that acceptable, Father?
Vigarde: Do... Do as he says.
Soldier: Understood! Right away, Your Majesty!

Lyon: .......Command Grado, Emperor Vigarde... Destroy Ephraim...
Vigarde: .......

@Battle 
Rennac: Ha ha! The spectacular capital of Grado. The richest city on the continent. With my expert eye, I judge this card to be an incomparable treasure. Once this is all done, I think I'll just scamper off on my own...

@Recruit-Talk 
%Ephraim,Rennac
Ephraim: You there, hold.
Rennac: Huh? ...You’re a man. Sorry, pal, but I’m not interested in men.
Ephraim: What are you doing here in the castle? You seem to be weighed down a bit. Helping yourself to the treasure?
Rennac: Ha! I’ve no idea what you’re talking about. Now, wait a minute... You couldn’t be... Aren’t you Prince Ephraim?!?
Ephraim: Hm? I’m Ephraim, but...
Rennac: I-I thought so. You’re the one they call the Beast of Renais... I’ve heard tales of how you’ve looted and pillaged your way across the land...
Ephraim: What?
Rennac: H-Hold on! Calm down! You won’t get any treasure by killing me. If you want these goods, it’ll cost you. 10,000 gold.
Ephraim: 10,000 gold?
Rennac: Yeah... Is that too high? Fine, then you get my sword as well. I’ll join your army. So that’s me and the treasure for only 9,980 gold! What do you say?
Ephraim: You know, I have no idea how I got pulled into this conversation. 9,980 gold, eh? I haven’t decided yet...
Ephraim: Here’s 9,980 gold. Is this sufficient?
Rennac: Huh? M-may I really take it?
Ephraim: Sorry? You set the price yourself, didn’t you? Now that I’ve hired you, I intend to get my money’s worth.
Rennac: You..aren’t going to stab me once I’ve taken your money, are you? Once the fighting’s all done, you won’t burn me at the stake or anything?
Ephraim: ...What rumors are these people spreading about me?

%L'Arachel,Rennac
L’Arachel: Aha! So this is where you’ve wandered off to, Rennac!
Rennac: Princess L’Arachel? Uh-oh, um...
L’Arachel: Come with me.
Rennac: Wait... Hold on now. Go with you where? Look, I’m sorry, but I’ve been hired by the Grado Empire, and... Hello! I’m talking to you!
L’Arachel: Rennac, whatever is the matter? I promise to listen to your story later, but now, we must be going!
Rennac: No, I’m no servant, like that kook Dozla. I’m a mercenary. I escorted you to Renais like I was hired to do, didn’t I? You have no right to drag me across creation without any pay whatsoever!
L’Arachel: Is this about wages? I believe you’ve received ample compensation.
Rennac: Ample?! Do you even know what that word means? You’re the princess of Rausten! I thought working for you would pay well! Yet your purse strings are knotted tight, and I’ve almost been killed so many–
L’Arachel: The joy that comes from doing good is not something that can be purchased. There. All better? Let’s go.
Rennac: NO! I said I don’t want to! Riding about with you is– ...And there she goes. Oh... By the Stones, why did I ever take that job in the first place?
L’Arachel (off-screen): We must hurry, Rennac.
Rennac: Right, right. I’m coming...

@Boss 
%Ephraim,Vigarde
Ephraim: Vigarde! Why did you invade Renais? Why did you kill my father?
Vigarde: ......
Ephraim: Answer me, Vigarde! ...So you really have lost hold of your senses, haven't you?

%Duessel,Vigarde
Vigarde: .....
Duessel: Your Majesty, am I finished?
Vigarde: .....
Duessel: Your Majesty... It's too late, isn't it? ...Forgive me.
Vigarde: ......

@End 
Ephraim: What? Is this... Vigarde's corpse--it... It disintegrated.
Seth: It must be some type of dark magic. Regardless, the capital has been captured. I'll lead a patrol through the castle. There may be enemy soldiers remaining.
Ephraim: I'll go with you. Lyon may be somewhere within the castle.

Lyon?: Hello, Ephraim. I've been waiting for you. Looks like you've beaten my father. I thought you might... You really are powerful, aren't you?
Ephraim: Lyon! Is that you? Lyon, you must tell me! What has happened here in Grado?
Lyon?: .......
Ephraim: Why are you in this place? Your father... Emperor Vigarde, why didn't you stop him? Don't tell me you're caught up in this madness, too! Answer me, Lyon! You always told me you wanted what your father wanted--peace!
Lyon?: I... I...I... Urgh! Let me tell you something, Ephraim. I've been waiting for this moment for a very, very long time.
Ephraim: ...
Lyon?: I will make the world Grado's--No, MY plaything. I've been planning this my whole life. Why else would I befriend you and Eirika? I needed to learn where and how to attack and destroy Renais... Thanks to the two of you, I learned all I needed to know. While you feigned compassion for my weakness and scorned me in your hearts.
Ephraim: What?! Lyon... You're wrong. We never--
Lyon?: And then my chance arrived. I replaced my useless father, readied my tools, and set my plan in motion. I began my destroying Renais... And then I murdered your father.
Ephraim: You... You lie, Lyon! You could never--
Lyon?: Shall I tell you a story? Would you like to hear of your father's last moments? You'll laugh really. Your father's such a weakling, and yet he tried so hard...
Ephraim: Lyon! No more insults to my father, or I may forget myself!
Lyon?: Oh, are you angry, Ephraim? But, not even you can stop me now. The Stones of Frelia and Renais are dust, and Jehanna's is soon to follow... ...Which leaves only two more... I will destroy them one at a time... I shall see my dream fulfilled...
Ephraim: What?!
Lyon?: Ephraim, you are in my way. Therefore... Ergh... ...How bothersome. I truly do wish to be your opponent, but I'm not yet at full strength. Let's meet again, shall we? Assuming you live, of course. I'll grant you the honor of dying at my hand. Like father, like son, eh?

Ephraim: .......

Soldier: Reporting in, sir! We've found a cell in the back. There were captives...

???: Who is it?
Seth: Ah!
Knoll: Has my execution been moved up on the schedule? Wait. You're not a Grado soldier. Who are you?
Ephraim: I am Ephraim of Renais. And who are you?
Knoll: That's an odd question for an executioner. My name is Knoll. Until recently, I was one of Grado's top researchers in arcane matters.
Seth: So why is it you are locked up here?
Knoll: .......
Ephraim: You need not answer if you do not wish to. Tell me, what is Lyon attempting to do? I still have things I intend to ask him.
Knoll: You wish to speak to Prince Lyon? You really don't know anything, do you?
Ephraim: What do you mean? Is there something wrong with Lyon? What do you know?
Knoll: .......I'll tell you all I know, if you would like. However, I think you will not thank me once you hear it. It all began one year ago... That was when the emperor died. The emperor's health worsened, and then he...
Ephraim: Hold. What are you on about? One year ago? That's before Grado's invasion of Renais began. And I just saw the emperor. I killed him with my own hands.
Knoll: Allow me to continue in the order in which everything occurred. One year ago, the emperor died of the illness that had plagued him. Prince Lyon was devastated. He fell into an endless despair. He felt unworthy to take the throne, unable to rule without his father.
Ephraim: .......
Knoll: He then began to look for a way to overturn his father's demise. He wanted to resurrect him--
Ephraim: Wait, resurrect him?
Knoll: Yes. As you know, the Stone of Grado is possessed of...unique powers. It was once used to seal away the Demon King, and it alone held the dark one's soul. It burned within with the Demon King's rage, and we called it the Fire Emblem. Prince Lyon and a team of mages skilled in ancient lore hoped to harness its energies. I remember the joy in Prince Lyon's eyes when he spoke of using it to save lives.
Ephraim: Lyon...
Knoll: Prince Lyon told us he intended to use the Fire Emblem to restore the emperor. His death had been kept from the public, but rumors were beginning to fly. We knew we had to hurry, before the people learned the truth of the emperor's death. Prince Lyon dedicated himself to research, skipping meals, foregoing sleep... And then...
Ephraim: What happened?
Knoll: I wasn't there, so I did not witness it firsthand. By the time I arrived, the deed had already been done. The Fire Emblem had been shattered, split in two. One was a Sacred Stone, and the other...

@Flashback
Knoll: Prince Lyon! What's happened? Prince...
Lyon: Oh, hello, it's you... What was your name again? Ah, yes, Knoll. You're one of my researchers. I've glad tidings for you. My father is back.
Knoll: The emperor?
Vigarde: .......
Lyon: Come, Father... Open your eyes.
Vigarde: .......
Knoll: Your... Your Majesty! This is incredible! Prince Lyon, what miracle is this? It cannot be! What--? What is that stone?
Lyon: This? This is the Dark Stone. It bears even more power than any Sacred Stone. I extracted and condensed all of the magic bound within the Fire Emblem. The Dark Stone's power is what gave my father back the spark of life.
Knoll: The Dark Stone...?
Lyon: Now that the Dark Stone is mine, I have no need for this empty husk.
Knoll: P-Prince Lyon! The Sacred Stone... What have you done?
Lyon: They are all in the way. The Sacred Stones, I mean. Four more remain, and they must all be destroyed. The only stone we need now is this Dark Stone of mine.

@End
Ephraim: .......
Knoll: After that... His Majesty ordered the invasion of Renais, as Prince Lyon asked him to. Father McGregor grew concerned with Prince Lyon's health. He tried several times to dissuade him from his path. Prince Lyon executed him personally. I, too, was branded a traitor and arrested. My execution was scheduled for tomorrow.
Ephraim: Lyon... Where is he now?
Knoll: Would that I knew. Prince Lyon frightens me now. He is...transformed...
Ephraim: He's... Lyon is my friend.
Knoll: This way, Prince Ephraim. I believe it's here...
Ephraim: What is it? What is this place?
Knoll: This is the former resting place of the Stone of Grado, the Fire Emblem. We've kept the Sacred Twins of Grado here as well. If we're still lucky, they may still be here.
Ephraim: The Sacred Twins... Those are the ancient weapons once wielded by the founders of our nations. Let's see if I remember my studies... Emperor Grado's were the magic tome Gleipnir and Garm, the black axe.
Knoll: That is correct. You know your history well.
Ephraim: Yeah, it's something I learned long ago from Lyon.
Knoll: .......
Ephraim: Well, let's see if they're still here, shall we?
Seth: Prince Ephraim. Here...I've found the Sacred Twin relics.
Ephraim: And here they are... Yet I don't understand. The Sacred Stone was destroyed, but these were left untouched? Why?
Knoll: I know not... Perhaps... No, never mind. It's an idle thought. Prince Ephraim, please take these relics with you.
Ephraim: Is that all right?
Knoll: Yes. I want you to have them. And maybe... Maybe someone else wanted you to have them as well.

Frelian: Prince Ephraim!
Ephraim: You've come at a good time, soldier. I want you to take a message to Frelia. Actually...
Frelian: We've received dire news from Jehanna! It's about Princess Eirika and Prince Innes... They're under attack by Grado forces led by Tiger Eye and Moonstone.
Ephraim: Eirika...
Seth: Caellach Tiger Eye and Valter Moonstone... They're supposed to be the most powerful of Grado's imperial generals. For them to have abandoned the capital and lead the battle into Jehanna...
Frelian: The Knights of Rausten have ridden to the eastern front to aid Frelia, but I fear for their survival.
Ephraim: We march for Jehanna immediately! We will rescue Eirika.
Frelian: B-but even if we leave now, we will not make it in time...
Ephraim: We will make it. Rest easy on that. Eirika is my sister. That one will never lay down her blade. And I am Eirika's brother. There is no way I'll let my sister die!
/***EOF***/
@Intro 
Orson: This way, Princess Eirika. Prince Ephraim is being kept in a cell back here.
Eirika: Very well, let’s go.
Seth: ...Sir Orson. How long ago were you taken prisoner?
Orson: Some two weeks past. Prince Ephraim and I were forced to surrender. We’ve been held captive here in this dungeon since that black day.
Seth: Did you gain any news from your captors during that time?
Orson: Unfortunately, no. Not a word... Our daily meal was brought to us by servants from the neighboring village. They were instructed not to speak to us, and we heard nothing of the war. Tell me, Seth. How fares Renais?
Seth: ...Renais has fallen. King Fado... The king is dead.
Orson: Dead... My King... My apologies, Princess Eirika. I have served you poorly....
Eirika: You’re not to blame, Sir Orson. We must look to the future, not find fault in the past. The Grado army pursues me in hopes of acquiring my bracelet. My brother wears this bracelet’s twin, and he is in danger, too.
Orson: Bracelet? Ah, I remember... Prince Ephraim still wears the bracelet. And Grado is after them? If that’s the case, Princess... Perhaps you should entrust the bracelets to someone else.
Eirika: Perhaps, but...
Orson: Give them to me or Seth. Let someone you trust guard them. If the empire desires you bracelet, you are in danger as long as you hold it. For your own safety, Your Highness, please. What say you? We must not allow the Sacred Stone of Renais to be taken.
Eirika: Everything you say is true and sensible, yet...
 
Seth: ... Sir Orson. I am sorry for this, but please give me your weapons.
Eirika: Seth?
Orson: What are you talking about, Seth? Can’t you see I’m unarmed? Do you think they allow prisoners weapons? What kind of injury have you taken that you suggest such foolishness?
Seth: If I am mistaken, then I will give you all due apologies. However, there are questions I have that I cannot answer. Too many questions. Why did no enemy reinforcements come from the castle during our battle outside? Why would you escape your cell and yet leave Prince Ephraim in chains? How do you know of the tie between the bracelets and the Sacred Stone?
Orson: Seth, there is some misunderstanding here. I...
Seth: And why... Why do you conceal a blade within your doublet?
Eirika: ...What?
Orson: ...Very well. You haven’t changed a bit, Seth. If only Eirika had been alone. You, however, simply will not be deceived.
Eirika: Orson! What is the–
Seth: Orson. Why did you betray Renais?
Orson: My fondest with will be granted... To spend the rest of my days in the embrace of my loving wife once more...
Eirika: What are you saying?
 
Tirado: That’s enough. You’ve done well, Orson. I’ll take over now. You may return to your beloved wife.
 
Seth: Who are you?
Tirado: We’ve never met. I am Tirado. Loyal and talented aide to Valter, general of the Grado army.
Seth: You’re that monster’s–
Tirado: And you are General Seth of Renais, yes? I thought to catch a little bird in my net, and it seems instead I’ve snared a hawk.
Eirika: Where is my brother?!
Tirado: Ah, yes. Your brother. He’s not here. The coward fled Lord Valter’s pursuit... Somehow, he escaped the castle. And escaping under these conditions... Tch! Such stubbornness is quite annoying. It was my cunning that led us to turn this unfortunate blunder to our advantage. I spread the rumors myself. I led the villagers to believe he was our prisoner. What better trap with which to catch his sweet, devoted sister?
Eirika: My brother escaped?
Tirado: Yes, but your no-doubt emotional reunion will have to wait until the afterlife. Let’s end this, shall we? First, to destroy the bridge and cut off your only avenue of escape... All soldiers to arms! Kill the princess! Take her bracelet!
 
Seth: Princess Eirika, we have to get away from this place!
Eirika: But how? The bridge is gone!
Seth: Blast!
Eirika: Oh, Brother... I’m so sorry... I...

@Battle 
Ephraim: Eirika!
Kyle: Prince Ephraim, I hear sounds from the east corridor. Sounds like fighting.
Forde: Do you think it could be General Seth and Princess Eirika?
Ephraim: We have two goals here, men: save Eirika and vanquish the enemy. Kyle. Forde. Are you ready?
Kyle: Yes, Your Highness.
Forde: As always.
Kyle: Lord Ephraim, we should join forces with Princess Eirika first. We should be able to reach them by way of the eastern corridor.
Forde: Come now, Kyle. That seems like a lot of trouble when we could just crush Grado between us.
Kyle: A lot of trouble? Forde, you’re as insolent as you are careless! If anything were to happen to Princess Eirika, we Knights of Renais would...
Forde: Fine, fine. I see where you stand. Calm down, before you boil over. Prince Ephraim will decide. How shall we proceed, Your Highness?
Kyle: We await your command, Prince Ephraim.
Ephraim: Both of you, follow me!

@Battle-Talk 
%Ephraim,Eirika
Ephraim: Eirika, are you well?
Eirika: Brother!? Is it really– You’re alive! You’re alive!
Ephraim: Well, of course I am. After we escaped Renvall, I thought I’d strike a blow against the emperor himself. When I heard that you’d been waylaid by the enemy, however, I turned back to find you. Looks like my timing was impeccable.
Eirika: I’m so sorry. The irony is that I was trying to rescue you. All I did was interfere with your plans...
Ephraim: What are you talking about? You came to help me, didn’t you? Your efforts alone are enough to inspire me. Come on, Eirika! The enemy awaits.
Eirika: All right!
 
%Seth,Ephraim
Seth: Prince Ephraim.
Ephraim: General Seth! You’re safe!
Seth: Princess Eirika is safe as well. I’m afraid I have much news to relate to you. That will have to wait, though. For now, we must cut our way out of here.
Ephraim: Yes. Let’s conclude our business here before we talk of other matters. Come on!
Seth: Yes, sire!
 
%Franz,Forde
Franz: Brother!
Forde: Ha! Franz! How’ve you been?
Franz: I should ask you! We’d heard you were captured by Grado’s men. I was worried.
Forde: Worried? I ride with Prince Ephraim, little brother. Death will have a tough time catching anyone who rides with our prince! But it’s not like we’ve avoided trouble altogether, that’s for sure. Hm? Say, have you grown taller on me?
Franz: I have. I’ve also finished my training. I’m now a sworn Knight of Renais. You just watch–I’m going to be on par with General Seth one day!
Forde: You want to be like the general, eh? ...What about me?
Franz: Oh I... I still want to be like you, too, Brother!
 
%Kyle,Seth
Kyle: General Seth!
Seth: Well met, Kyle. I never thought for a moment that you could be bested easily.
Kyle: No, sir! And I never doubted that I would see you again.
Seth: Kyle. About Orson...
Kyle: We heard it all. Unbelievable, isn’t it? But facts are facts.
Seth: Yes. If Orson can turn his back on Renais... We remaining knights will have to work all the harder to prove ourselves! Let’s go, Kyle.
Kyle: Yes, sir!

@Boss 
Tirado: Hmm... My men were unable to finish the job, were they? It falls on me to show you my own special brand of power.
 
Tirado: Very...impressive... However... I expect you’ll wish you’d died here on my steel. Lord Valter is...not nearly as merciful as I...

@End 
Eirika: Brother...
Ephraim: I worried you, didn’t I, Eirika? And you as well, General?
Seth: Not at all. We’re happy you’re safe. But tell me, Prince, do you know of Orson’s treachery against you and all of Renais?
Ephraim: Yes, though I learned of it all too late, after we’d been trapped at Renvall. I still find it difficult to believe that after all his years of service to Renais... I am morally responsible for his plight.
Eirika: Ephraim...
 
Myrrh: ...Ephraim.
Ephraim: What is it, Myrrh?
Myrrh: Something’s coming... It’s drawing near. Dark...big...and great in number.
Ephraim: I understand. It looks like we should get out of here.
Eirika: Um, Brother? This girl... Her hair is indigo... Where did...
Ephraim: Ah, that’s a long story. For now, we must move. Suffice to say Emperor Vigarde has enlisted some... otherworldly powers. We must warn everyone of the danger.

/***EOF***/
@Opening 
Jehanna, home of dancing white sands. This largely barren desert nation is infamous for its mercenary forces. In accordance with her husband’s dying wish, the beautiful Ismaire rules Jehanna. The Queen of the White Dunes governs Jehanna with Grace and Honor. When he was young, her son left Jehanna. His whereabouts remain unknown. After passing through Caer Pelyn, Eirika arrives in Jehanna. There, she finds the nation embroiled in combat with Grado’s forces.

@Intro 
Cormag: My brother is...dead? That can’t be! That’s impossible!
Valter: There’s no mistake. Look for yourself. I’ve brought his corpse with me. That’s him right over there, isn’t it?
Cormag: No... Brother...
Valter: Not a pretty sight, eh? You’ll be hard pressed to ready that for a proper burial. But listen, Cormag. There’s no reason for you to grieve. After all, who is better than you to replace your brother in His Majesty’s service? Picture it: General Cormag, the new and improved Sunstone, eh?
Cormag: Who did this... Who is responsible? Who!?
Valter: Glen’s last orders were to find and subdue Eirika. ‘Tis a pity I was delayed. I arrived to witness the final blow myself. I watched Eirika run her blade right through his chest and then flee.
Cormag: Eirika?! Where is she now?
Valter: Hm? What would you do if I told you? Without orders from His Majesty...
Cormag: ANSWER ME!
Valter: ...In the eastern mountains of Carcino. The forests are thick in that region. It won’t be easy finding her, but...
 
Valter: Gone already? I’ve sent a gift your way, Eirika, but I trust you can handle it. You’re my girl after all. I need you to be strong for me... Heh heh... ha ha ha ha ha!
 
Messenger: Messenger! Messenger! I bring word from Frelia!
Innes: Go on. What news do you bring?
Messenger: Prince Innes! You’re alive and well! When the reinforcements rode into Carcino, you were nowhere to be seen... We thought perhaps the enemy forces had reached you and... It’s good to see you well, milord.
Innes: I’m sorry to have troubled you. But remember, the duty I bear is a harsh master. It will not let me die easily.
Messenger: Of course. Prince Innes...
Innes: Yes, what word do you bring of Frelia? Speak!
Messenger: Yes, Your Highness! Frelia has invaded Carcino and engaged the traitor Pablo’s mercenary army. With aid from the elder Klimt, we are crushing the foe where we find them. Pablo’s faction is retreating ever southward, toward Jehanna...
Innes: Towards Jehanna? They must be planning to join with the Grado forces there.
Eirika: Pardon me, but I must know... Do you have word of my brother?
Messenger: Yes. Prince Ephraim has forced them surrender of Grado’s fortress at Rigwald. He is now marching onward toward the imperial capital.
Eirika: Toward the capital...
Innes: That fool... Emperor Vigarde himself and his imperial guard are in the capital. It’s too strong a force... Even for Ephraim.
Eirika: No... I believe in my brother. I know he fights still. The bracelet tells me so.
 
L’Arachel: Ah, Eirika. Is it time to go already?
Eirika: L’Arachel. We’re going to break through the Grado lines and join the army of Jehanna. You should keep to the rear where it’s safe...
L’Arachel: No, I will stay with you. Confronting evil boldly is the sworn duty of any ally of justice. And it may be that Grado’s goal is the Stone of Jehanna... I cannot stand by and let it be destroyed.
Eirika: L’Arachel? Where did you come by such information?
L’Arachel: Hm? That...uh, well...the...wind whispered to me in the night.
Eirika: The wind? Whispered to you?
L’Arachel: Yes, that’s right. ...And according to that gentle breeze, there are knights riding this way from Rausten even as we speak. If we can but hold out until they arrive, the battle will surely be ours. Come, Eirika. Let us be on our way.
 
Eirika: W-wait a moment. L’Arachel? Who are you?
 
Caellach: They should be arriving anytime now. Are you ready, Aias?
Aias: Mm. Everything’s in place. This Princess Eirika supposedly defeated General Glen. I wonder... If it’s true, then she’s a foe to be reckoned with, and no doubt. Still, there’s no reason to worry. I can best her. I know it.
Caellach: You’ll take her, I’ve no fear. We fought as mercenaries together, and I know what you’re capable of. I could search the continent over and not find a man to match your skills.
Aias: I’m honored to hear you say that. But I’ve no interest in the titles and trapping of Grado’s Imperial Army.
Caellach: Don’t say that. You’re glad you came with me, right? You know we were both sick to death of living like desert rats. I’m going to be king one day. This war is just the beginning.
Aias: Ah... It starts again.
Caellach: Word has it that the Knights of Rausten are riding from the north. They’re mine. I can trust this mess to your capable hands, can’t I, Aias?
Aias: You remember what they called me when we were mercenaries, don’t you? I was never once wounded on the field of battle. Not once... My skill is not garnish and loud like yours, but I’ve never known defeat.
Caellach: Yes, that is true. I’m depending on you, Aias.
 
Aias: ..... All units prepare for battle.
 
Seth: Princess Eirika. The enemy is arrayed before us. We’ve word that Pablo’s mercenary army is closing in from the rear. You must be cautious.
L’Arachel: All we have to do is hold them off until the Knights of Rausten arrive. If we can do that, victory is as good as ours. Let’s get started, shall we, Eirika?
Eirika: Indeed!

@Boss 
Aias: It’s not over yet. Victory still hands in the balance. They key is defeated the enemy commander, but...
 
Aias: Very...impressive. You’ve pierced the battle formations I’d perfected... No one’s ever done that. Renais’s tactician has earned my highest regard.
Soldier: Rausten Knights?! No... All troops! Retreat at once!

@Recruit-Talk 
%Eirika,Cormag
Cormag: You’re Eirika, aren’t you?
Eirika: And you’re...
Cormag: You don’t know me, but you know my brother well enough. I’m Cormag. I’m the brother of Glen, general of the Grado army, whom you killed?
Eirika: What?
Cormag: This is no longer war, and this is not a battlefield. This is a duel, and I fight to avenge my brother. He died in combat, and I’ll not foul his name by murdering you unarmed. But I will have vengeance.
Eirika: Hold! What is the meaning of this? Glen... Are you telling me General Glen is dead?
Cormag: Do not play me for a fool! You will not... Your lies do nothing but stain your honor. Nothing more.
Eirika: You’ve got it wrong! You’re making a mistake. Your brother and I never fought. He lowered his lance and left the battlefield to confront your emperor.
Cormag: ...My brother? You lie! Where is your proof?
Eirika: I’ve no proof. But... Here are the words he spoke to me. He told me he believed I possessed a gentle heart when we met before. He said I had not lost that quality...
Cormag: ..... I see... Those are indeed my brother’s words. But then who? Who benefits from– ...Ah! ...Valter!
Eirika: What is it?
Cormag: ...Princess Eirika of Renais. I would be your ally.
Eirika: What?
Cormag: I don’t care why you’re fighting. I’ve no interest in your goals. I want nothing but revenge, and I will have it. If I can kill Valter with these two hands, what care I if Grado brands me a traitor?

@Battle 
Soldier: Elder Pablo, there’s fighting ahead.
Pablo: Grr...I’ve misread the situation. I can’t believe I’ve been forced out of Carcino. It’s those accursed Frelia Knights riding down on us from the north. If things don’t change quickly, I’ll be forced to appeal to Grado for aid. We must prove ourselves worthy allies of Grado. We must have them in out debt! First, I’ll use my magic to bury those enemies in the distance.
 
@Boss
Pablo: Grrr... I’ve got more money then you’ve ever seen. What say you? Join me, and take a seat of power at my side.
 
Pablo: Argh... It can’t be...I... You can’t have my gold... It’s all...mine...

@Battle
Aias: Rausten knights?! That means Caellach’s– Curses... All troops! Retreat at once!

@End 
Soldier: Forward the lances! Show them the might of Rausten!
Eirika: The Knights of Rausten! Just as L’Arachel said... Reinforcements have arrived in Jehanna!
L’Arachel: What I’d like to know is what took them so long! However, it seems that all has worked out in the end.
Soldier: Princess! Knights of Rausten, 2nd battalion, reporting for duty!
L’Arachel: Well done. You may lift your eyes.
Eirika: Princess? L’Arachel, you’re a–
 
L’Arachel: What? Oh, you mean... Don’t be silly. This is nothing. Please don’t concern yourself.
Dozla: I do believe, milady, that your disguise has been penetrated.
L’Arachel: Oh... I suppose there’s naught to be done about it now. Very well, Eirika. You’ve found me out! The beauteous wanderer who’s been your boon companion is none other then... the jewel of the theocracy of Rausten, Princess L’Arachel herself! I was acting under divine order to strike down evil in this land.
Eirika: ..... Is that so? But why did you...
 
Soldier: The truth is... The princess was enflamed by the words of the court troubadour, Saaga... She forced us to allow her to journey forth anonymously on a quest for justice.
Eirika: I-I see...
Soldier: Princess. This is from King Mansel.
 
L’Arachel: What’s this? War funds? Oh, what a grand uncle. He’s just so thoughtful. Princess Eirika of Renais. Rausten will not yield to Grado. Together, let us defeat the empire in the name of righteousness!
Seth: Princess Eirika. Princes Innes. I’ve received word from the front. The palace of Jehanna was attacked by Grado forces and has surrendered.
Innes: What? How did that...
Eirika: And the queen? Is she safe?
Seth: That remains unknown.
Innes: She may yet live. We must hurry.
Seth: The palace has already been occupied by imperial troops. The Grado army is being led by Lyon, the imperial prince.
Eirika: Lyon?!
L’Arachel: What it is, Eirika?
Eirika: It’s nothing... ...Lyon...
 
Caellach: Hey, Aias.
Aias: Caellach...
Caellach: That was something awful. I never expected to see you get beaten so roundly.
Aias: Yes. It was a complete failure. The Rausten knights arrived far more quickly then I’d anticipated. But it doesn’t matter, does it? Whether I won or lost? You were planning on abandoning me from the start, weren’t you?
Caellach: ...Yeah, sorry. I’m not going to let things end for me here. I want to rise... To climb higher and higher. I will not be chained to my past. I will not be chained to you. I truly apologize, but you die here. Good-bye, my friend.

/***EOF***/
@Opening 
The Sacred Stone of Renais has been broken. Constant strife with dark creatures has made the group’s progress near impossible. Princess L'Arachel of Rausten suggests they pay a visit to Rausten Court. It is here that the final Sacred Stone is sealed away. L’Arachel rides cheerfully toward her homeland with the company in tow.

@Intro 
L'Arachel: Home at last. My dear, sweet palace. Uncle, I’ve returned.
Mansel: Oh, L’Arachel! It’s good to see you safe!
L'Arachel: Of course I’m safe, Uncle. Evil can never defeat the forces of righteousness!
Mansel: Ha! You’re exactly right, my dear! Now tell me, who are our guests?
Eirika: Pontifex Mansel of Rausten, allow me to introduce myself. I am Eirika, Princess of Renais. I come to you today as an emissary of Frelia.
Ephraim: And I am Ephraim, Prince of Renais. I come with Eirika to warn you of the danger our world faces.
Eirika: It began when...

Mansel: ...Hmm, I see. That is a tough tale to swallow all at once... However, I have heard of the fell creatures in Darkling Woods. L’Arachel. You will need the Stone of Rausten if we have any hope of victory.
L'Arachel: That is so, Uncle. I would like permission to open the temple seal.
Mansel: Hmm... There's no need to rush yourself so, L'Arachel. You’re home again, in this blessed haven. You should rest.
L'Arachel: How can I relax until I know that our Sacred Stone is safe? At the least, I’d like to ensure that the temple seal is intact. Oh...
Mansel: Is something amiss?
L'Arachel: I think we’ll take a night to rest after all. Everyone is so exhausted. My dear friend Eirika especially has had a very trying time of late.

Eirika: ......
L'Arachel: Eirika.
Eirika: Ah...
L'Arachel: Don’t look so sad. It wreaks such havoc on your beauty.
Eirika: L'Arachel. I... What should I do? Lyon was one of my dearest friends... I feel so helpless. There’s nothing I can do to help him...
L'Arachel: Your friend is gone, Eirika. All that remains is the Demon King, masquerading as Lyon. For the good of all humanity, he must be defeated. Ah... If only it truly were that easy, though.
Eirika: ...
L'Arachel: Eirika... I never knew Prince Lyon. I cannot pretend to understand the sadness you must feel. However, I do know this... If the Lyon you hold so dear were here with you today... What do you think he would want you to do?
Eirika: I can’t... ......
L'Arachel: There’s no need to rush, Eirika. Take your time and think it through. You need to find your own answer. Now then, it’s about time we found ourselves something to eat. It’s hard to be optimistic on an empty stomach.

Eirika: Yes, I’ll be right there. Thank you, L'Arachel.

Ephraim: ......
Tana: Come on, Ephraim, cheer up.
Ephraim: What are you talking about, Tana? There's nothing wrong with me. I'm always like this.
Tana: That's not true. I've never seen you look so sad as you do right now. If you're depressed, I'm sure my brother would worry... And I...well, I...
Ephraim: ......Tana. You're the princess of Frelia. Perhaps it's unwise of you to be so friendly to Eirika and me. After all, alliances aside, our two countries' needs may differ. Who knows what the future holds? Those ties could snap in an instant...
Tana: No! Don't say that!
Ephraim: And why not?
Tana: You and Eirika are both my friends. We come from different countries, it's true, but...but... No matter what happens, the friendship I feel for you will never change!

Ephraim: ......I'm sorry, Tana. I wasn't thinking straight. Please don't cry.
Tana: Ephraim...
Ephraim: You're right, though. No matter what happens, the bond between us will never disappear. And it's because Lyon is my friend that I have to put an end to this. Thank you, Tana.

Ephraim: ......
L'Arachel: That long face doesn't suit you at all. Has something happened?
Ephraim: L'Arachel... No, this is how I always am.
L'Arachel: Lying to the daughter of a holy man is a grave sin, don't you know? If you would like to talk, I would like to listen...
Ephraim: ......I'm sorry. I can't talk about it. I'm not even planning on telling Eirika what happened.
L'Arachel: You're so stubborn, aren't you? Do you plan on shouldering the entire burden yourself?
Ephraim: I'm sorry.
L'Arachel: If that's all you're going to say, then there's naught I can do. Have you already decided on your course of action?
Ephraim: ......Mm-hm. I'm prepared.
L'Arachel: ...Then there's no need for me to say anything more, is there? You and I are so alike... You want nothing but to help others. You refuse to show weakness, and you want to accomplish everything yourself. However, you must know that there are times when you must share the burden.
Ephraim: That's true... And I feel better for having spoken with you. Thank you, L'Arachel.

???: Heh heh heh... Guard duty? At this time of night? Such a diligent soldier.
Soldier: Huh?! Who goes there?
???: Where are you looking? I’m over here.
Soldier: Wha...
???: No, no, here. I’m over here.
???: What’s wrong? I’m right here. Heh heh heh...
Soldier: Wha...wha...
???: Is the darkness too deep for you to penetrate? Can’t you see what the night is hiding?
Soldier: A-attack!

Riev: Heh heh heh... Humans will never conquer darkness. The guardian of light, Rausten, will drown in a never-ending night. Come, my pretties. It’s time to go. The day of Rausten’s destruction has at long last arrived!

Soldier: Your Holiness! There’s been an attack! We think it’s Grado’s men, fleeing from Frelia’s forces. However, they’ve breached the palace defenses at multiple points.
Mansel: What?!
Soldier: The imperial guard is at a terrible disadvantage of numbers right now. It’s less a battle than a slaughter. I’m not sure they will be able to hold out until the Knights of Rausten arrive.
Mansel: How has this happened? Our sacred capital invaded? I must...
L'Arachel: Uncle, please, you must keep yourself safe. We can take care of this. Is everyone ready to go?
Seth: Princess Eirika, please... Prince Ephraim and I will handle this.
Ephraim: Seth, it’s all right. Eirika can take care of herself. Isn’t that right, Eirika?
Eirika: Yes. I’m sorry if I troubled you. Let’s go. We have to protect Pontifex Mansel.

Seth: Prince Ephraim, we’ll take care of this. Please...
Eirika: Brother...
Ephraim: I’m sorry. I’ve been useless and worse lately. I’m over it now. I’m ready to fight. Let’s go! Take out the enemy, and protect Pontifex Mansel!

@Battle 
Riev: Heh heh heh... The day is coming, and swiftly... The day of our triumph, our vengeance! Self-righteous fools of Rausten! Where are your miracles now?! March on! March, minions of the Demon King! Your time is upon you! Tonight, we claim not only Pontifex Mansel’s sad life, but also Rausten’s Sacred Stone! Heh heh heh... You cretin, Mansel... I will have my revenge. You should never have excommunicated me. The Demon King will be your new master!

Eirika: Lyon... You were so selfless. Your generosity seemed to flow from a bottomless well. I’m so sorry, Lyon. I couldn’t save you. But I know what you would have wanted. I know it as I know my own name. So watch, Lyon. I will defeat the Demon King.

Ephraim: Lyon is my friend. No matter what has happened, that one fact will not change. I know this. I will not falter in my resolve. Lyon, because I’m your friend, I will strike you down.

@Boss 
Riev: Heh heh heh... One Sacred Stone remains. Once it is destroyed, darkness will consume the world. What will you do? Will you cower in fear? Heh heh heh...

Riev: Heh heh heh... No! No! It’s been so long. I got carried away. I’d best stop and withdraw for now. Follow me. Come to Darkling Woods... The Demon King awaits your pleasure...

@End 
L'Arachel: Behold. Victory is ours!
Eirika: Yes, we did it somehow. I wonder if everyone else is OK.
L'Arachel: Eirika? Did you find your answer?
Eirika: Yes. Thank you, L’Arachel. Your words guided me.
L'Arachel: My-my words? It was nothing... Come, we should find the Sacred Stone. If anything were to happen to it...
Eirika: L'Arachel? Your face is flushed. Is anything amiss?”
L'Arachel: N-no, it’s nothing. Nothing at all!”

Ephraim: That takes care of that.
Tana: Ephraim! I’d glad to see that your spirits are up.
Ephraim: Ah, Tana. And I have you to thank for it.
Tana: It was nothing. As long as you’re back to your old self, that is thanks enough.

L'Arachel: I’m holding it in my very hand! The Stone of Rausten! Its glorious radiance suits my complexion, wouldn’t you say?
Ephraim: This is it. The last one. The last remaining Sacred Stone.
L’Arachel: It is. And the time to defeat the Demon King draws near.
Eirika: We should be leaving. We have to act before those creatures gain more momentum.
Myrrh: Yes. We should make haste. The poison spreads. It is growing ever stronger.
Ephraim: Where?
Myrrh: Darkling Woods... Where the Demon King fell...

Mansel: L'Arachel, must you leave so soon? You’ve only just returned, and you have to leave?
L'Arachel: Uncle, defeating evil is the highest calling I can perform.
Mansel: Of course, my dear. It is a divine calling, but...
L'Arachel: You needn’t worry, Uncle. After all, I'm not on my own. I have my friends.
Mansel: I see. You’ve been blessed, L'Arachel. Blessed with many good friends.
L'Arachel: I am indeed, Uncle. And they, in turn, are blessed with me! Farewell, Uncle. I shall return. Once evil has been vanquished, we'll all return safe and sound.
Mansel: Hold on. Not so fast now.

Mansel: I have something I wish to present to Princess Eirika.
Eirika: To me, Your Holiness?
Mansel: Yes, Princess. I'd like you to accept this gift.
Eirika: What is it?
L'Arachel: Oh! Aren't those... Aren't those the Sacred Twins of Rausten?
Mansel: That's right, dear niece. These are the weapons of Saint Latona, most holy father of Rausten. Here, we have glorious Ivaldi, and its twin, the divine Staff of Latona. I will also spare some funding to feed and arm your forces. After all, there is much that you must do before you leave these halls.
L'Arachel: So they are the blessed Latona's most sacred relics... Is this allowed?
Mansel: I know the law, L'Arachel. The relics must never leave the temple, with the sole exception of the occasional ascension ceremony, but I think that, when the world needs saving, we can make the odd exception.
L'Arachel: That's my uncle!
Mansel: You will return them, of course... once you've finished your task. Princess Eirika, I would have your oath on this.
Eirika: Of course. You have my word. We shall return safely, and we shall restore your relics.
L'Arachel: Darkling Woods is home to naught but demons now. Indeed, I hear tell that none who enter its borders ever leave again. We ought to stock up on supplies in town before we set out.
Eirika: Yes, we must be as prepared as possible before we set out. I don't want to take any reckless chances with our lives.

Soldier: Princess L'Arachel!
L'Arachel: My beloved countrymen! The combat was fierce, but you protected the palace honorably. The valorous Knights of Rausten shall live on in story and song!
Soldier: Thank you, my lady. As always, it is our honor to serve. Princess Eirika, before you leave, please take this sword. We pray for your swift and safe return!
Eirika: I appreciate your gift. I swear I will not allow your valor to be wasted!
L'Arachel: As long as the righteousness of justice fills our hearts, how can we lose? Men, I ask that you watch after my dear uncle.
Soldier: You have our word, my lady. In the twin names of justice and order!

Mansel: I have something else for Prince Ephraim as well.
Ephraim: For me?
Mansel: That's right, Prince. I'd like you to accept this gift.
Ephraim: But this is...
L'Arachel: Oh! Aren't those... Aren't those the Sacred Twins of Rausten?
Mansel: That's right, dear niece. These are the weapons of Saint Latona, most holy father of Rausten. Here, we have glorious Ivaldi, and its twin, the divine Staff of Latona. I will also spare some funding to feed and arm your forces. After all, there is much that you must do before you leave these halls.
L'Arachel: So they are the blessed Latona's most sacred relics... Is this allowed?
Mansel: I know the law, L'Arachel. The relics must never leave the temple, with the sole exception of the occasional ascension ceremony, but I think that, when the world needs saving, we can make the odd exception.
L'Arachel: That's my uncle!
Mansel: You will return them, of course... once you've finished your task. Prince Ephraim, I would have your oath on this.
Ephraim: Of course.
L'Arachel: Darkling Woods is home to naught but demons now. Indeed, I hear tell that none who enter its borders ever leave again. We ought to stock up on supplies in town before we set out.
Ephraim: Yes, I think stocking up would be in our best interest. I intended to see that we all return unharmed.

Soldier: Princess L'Arachel!
L'Arachel: My beloved countrymen! The combat was fierce, but you protected the palace honorably. The valorous Knights of Rausten shall live on in story and song!
Soldier: Thank you, my lady. As always, it is our honor to serve. Prince Ephraim, before you go, please take this sword. We pray for your swift and safe return!
Ephraim: As I pray for your safety, too. I won't let your valorous deeds be wasted this day!
L'Arachel: As long as the righteousness of justice fills our hearts, how can we lose? Men, I ask that you watch after my dear uncle.
Soldier: You have our word, my lady. In the twin names of justice and order!
/***EOF***/
@Opening 
Eirika suppresses her feelings of unease and continues to search for her brother. Passing through Serafew, the group crosses into the Grado Empire. From here forward, there is no doubt that they are walking through hostile territory. In hopes of avoiding unnecessary trouble, Eirika and company head for a sparsely populated region of Grado. However, it is too late. Their movements are already being tracked.

@Intro 
Riev: So, tell me... You have ascertained Eirika’s whereabouts, have you not?
Novala: I have. I sent some of our men to follow the princess as she fled Serafew. They tell me Eirika and her friends will be coming this way shortly. Our ambush is ready and waiting. There’s no way they can escape. Like rats in a sack, as they say. Heh heh heh...
Riev: Very good... Won’t that wretched Valter be delighted. Now about this Princess Eirika... I hear she’s quite a handful. They say her paladin withstood Valter’s lance... Tell me, Novala, are you certain you can handle this assignment?
Novala: Don’t worry. Everything is under control. I’ve brought along a certain something from Renais. It will negate whatever futile resistance they offer. Ha ha ha...
Riev: Heh heh heh... Pray it goes as you say. Very well. Do what you must. I must return to the capital.
Novala: Will you not stay and see how Eirika looks in captivity?
Riev: Unlike two other layabouts I know, I do not have such time to waste. I have much to do for out master. A mountain of tasks awaits me. My time is far too precious to waste on the likes of that royal whelp. Trifles such at these are best left in the hands of servants...such as you.
Novala: Y-yes, of course... Then...travel well.
 
Novala: Hmph... Freakish old man. You should have watched. You might have learned something. I will capture the princess, and I will replace you at our master’s side. You will stew in regret, and I will enjoy every moment.
 
 
Novala: Ha ha ha... Princess Eirika of Renais! Accept your fate. You have nowhere to flee!
Eirika: What?! Who are you? And where...where did you come from?
Novala: You’re as beautiful as I’d heard... And you’re even wearing your bracelet. I suppose we should begin there. Would you surrender your lovely little trinket?
Seth: Ah!
Eirika: My bracelet... Why do you want it?
Novala: His Majesty desires it. That’s reason enough. Once I present it to him, he will make me a general, and I will be famous. Come, hand it over. Do it quickly, and I’ll leave you alive.
Seth: Princess Eirika, you will do no such thing.
Eirika: Of course not.
Novala: Obedience will save you pain. You came all this way to aid Prince Ephraim, have you not? A fool’s errand. Ephraim fell before the empire’s might. As we speak he wastes away in a cell in Renvall, meekly awaiting his execution.
Eirika: My brother?! You lie! A pitiful worm like you could never defeat my brother!
Novala: Bah. Protest all you like. It does not change the truth. Ephraim has lost, and it was Grado that defeated him!
Eirika: ......
Novala: You’re not going to acquiesce, are you? Very well. Bring me the child.
 
Girl: H-help me...
Eirika: Ah!
Novala: Look familiar? She’s a citizen of your precious Renais. Now give me the bracelet! Do it, or the child dies!
Eirika: No, please... You win. But I must have your word the child will suffer no harm.
Seth: Princess, wait. That bracelet–
Eirika: It’s not worth a child’s life. Forgive me, Seth.
Novala: Yes...there can be no mistaking it! Next, your weapons. Take them off and hand them over.
Seth: No. Surrendering our weapons would be tantamount to suicide. You demand too much of us.
Novala: I see years of peace and idleness have not dulled the wits of all Renais’s knights. Well then, my hostage has no more use to me, does she? Ah, such a waste. Wait a moment... I’ve just had a delicious idea. Have you heard of the giant spiders prowling about this region? They’d appreciate a nice, hot meal, wouldn’t you agree?
Eirika: You can’t–
Girl: Nooo!
 
Novala: Ha ha! This will be a delight to watch! These fools will curse the day they were born to Renais!
Eirika: Why...why would you... How can you do such a thing?
Novala: This is WAR! There are no rules here! In war, you can do anything! Anything! You curs of Renais have lost! Your idiotic ravings mean nothing...
Eirika: Enough. Hold your tongue.
Novala: Wha...what?!
Eirika: I... We, the people of Renais, have long honored our allegiance with the Grado Empire. And you invaded without warning. You ravaged our land. You killed my father... Even then, I told myself, I must not hate Grado or her people. If I gave in to my hate, the bond between our lands would be lost forever. I refused to hate. Instead, I lived for the day our nations would know peace again. But... If this is Grado’s true face... If you could extinguish Renais without pity, without remorse... If this is the case, then there is no room in my heart for forgiveness.
Novala: Impudent girl! Do you expect your words to save your countrymen? They will not. Your beloved people will all die, as will you.
 
Novala: Ha ha ha! If you must curse someone, curse your dear princess.
Girl: Help, someone!
Novala: Cry! Scream! HAHAHAHAHA!
 
Girl: Are we gonna get eaten?
Mother: We’re going to be fine. Someone will rescue us.
Father: ......

@Visit 
Boy: I heard there are monstrous spiders living in the mountains to the east. They’re said to be poisonous, so I stocked up on antitoxins... This antitoxin’s strong stuff. No need to worry about poison with this around. Hey! Why don’t you go ahead and take one. Go on, you may need it. They might still eat you, but at least they won’t be able to poison you!

@Battle 
Girl: Eeek! S-s-spider... Nooooo! Go away! Please, somebody, help! HEEEEELLLLPPP!
 
Girl: N-noooooo!
 
Girl: Eeek! S-s-spider... Nooooo! Go away! Please, somebody, help! HEEEEELLLLPPP!

@Boss
Novala: No! It can’t be... They’ve made it this far?! Grrr... Must I do everything myself!?
 
Novala: Aah... Is this...the end? No fame? No...glory–

@End 
Girl: ......
Eirika: You’re safe now.
Girl: Wa... Waaaaaaa! I was so scared... So very, very scared.
Mother: Thank you. You saved us both. If you would like, please take this... And thank you again.
 
Seth: Your late father, King Fado... He ordered to keep me silent until the proper time arrived. However, with all that has happened, with Emperor Vigarde’s actions... I feel it imperative that I tell you everything, Princess Eirika. Are you ready to hear the secret of the bracelet you wear?
Eirika: I am...
Seth: As you know, Princess... Renais houses one of the legendary Sacred Stones.
Eirika: Of course. It’s in the temple. It’s supposed to be a ward against evil.
Seth: Yes, the true stone is. But the stone in the temple is nothing but a forgery. The real Sacred Stone of Renais lies beneath the royal castle. Guarding it is a powerful seal, an infinitely complex lock of sorts.
Eirika: What? Is this true?
Seth: Yes. King Fado confided in me himself. The Sacred Stoned banished evil long ago and possess power beyond our ken. The ancient kings of Renais felt it prudent to seal ours away. They feared its power could be misused. They thought to remove the temptation. The keys to break the seal were hidden, too... Forged into bracelets... ...The very ones that you and your brother, Prince Ephraim, wear.
Eirika: Our bracelets? How could Father keep this a secret from me for so long?
Seth: They must know nothing of the bracelets. Tell them only if some great peril strikes.?These were King Fado’s exact orders. Prince Ephraim knows nothing of the bracelets?secret, either. The king told me this out of fear that something might happen to him. So that, when the time came, the two of you would learn the truth.
Eirika: The bracelets have such meaning...
Eirika: Yes. And we are the only living souls who know the secret of the Stone of Renais. At least, that’s what I was given to believe. And yet...
Eirika: Yet the Grado army has made it clear that they want me only for my bracelet.
Seth: Yes, quite clear at that... I don’t know how, but Emperor Vigarde must have learned the secret somehow. And now, his troops pursue the bracelet, and we are no closer to knowing his motives.
Eirika: He would use the bracelets to unlock the Sacred Stone and destroy it in secret...
Seth: Perhaps.
Eirika: Which means that my brother... and his bracelet...
Seth: If he’s been captured, they may have the bracelet already, and he may be–
Eirika: Ephraim...
Seth: Princess, we must take Novala’s words to be true. We must hurry to Prince Ephraim. The enemy soldiers who fled the battle will have reported our location by now. If the prince is being held prisoner at Renvall... I fear they might execute him once they learn of our approach.
Eirika: You’re right. We’ve no time to waste. We must hurry to Renvall! Let’s go rescue my brother!

/***EOF***/
@Opening 
According to legend, the Sacred Stones have sealed evil away from the world. Four of the five stones have been destroyed, leaving only the last stone intact. The last stone must be protected to stave off the Demon King's restoration. Eirika/Ephraim and company challenge the demons of Darkling Woods. According to legend, the original possessors of the Sacred Stones defeated the Demon King in Darkling Woods. His foul blood seeped into the land, corrupting every seed and every root. The once-pristine forest was transformed by the flood of disease and venom. Legend says the Demon King's corpse lies there still, not dead but dreaming. Dreaming of when the last stone is crushed, and he will rise from his bed of rocks and worms and return to the surface. Within Darkling Woods, hideous fiends roam in increasing numbers, as if responding to some unheard call...

@Intro 
Lyon: ...The time grows near.
Morva: ...Hold.
Lyon: Huh?
Morva: What are you doing here, human? You should return to your own kind. This is no place for you to tread. This is darkness's domain... This is desecrated land.
Lyon: That's why I've come. I have the power of the Demon King. I will save us all.
Morva: You... Evil grips your heart... No--you've given your heart to evil.
Lyon: .......
Morva: What a tragedy... Human flesh cannot contain the demon. It cannot control him. You think yourself safe, but already, your control slips. I see the madness eating at you. I see the beginning of the end.
Lyon: You're wrong. This... Ah...urg... I do this of my own will... I will save Grado's people.
Morva: .......
Lyon: I had a vision. I saw my life traveling two roads. Down one, the Demon King conquers both my body and soul. Down the other, I master the Demon King, and with that power...urg... With that power, I avert disaster. I gave the people a better future... I resist the Demon King's attempts to wrest away my will... I saw this, and I made my decision. I walk the second road.
Morva: You fool... The Demon King has blinded you to his true wish. How can you not see it? He's had you since the moment you first held the Dark Stone. He has been hiding within you, luring you deeper into the shadows of his heart. He commands you and remakes you to suit his dark design.
Lyon: ...You're wrong...
Morva: You think yourself unchanged? You think yourself the master? I see only more evidence that the Demon King commands you now. Can you not sense--
Lyon: It's not true! I... I will save everyone.
Morva: Think back! Remember! Are you truly the man you used to be? Would you justify war and murder to bring about peace and justice? Remember who you were, and tell me if you are still yourself!
Lyon: .......All of this matters not. I know the Demon King has claimed me. It is not important... Not if I can save the world. My own soul is irrelevant.
Morva: ...It is as I feared. You will not give up this madness. I am Morva, the dragonkin who guards the entrance to these woods. I do not have the ability to save you. All I can do is destroy the demon that coils around your heart. To prevent the further damnation of your soul... I can only grant you eternal sleep.
Lyon: I cannot sleep. I have not yet--There is no taboo I will not break, no sacrifice I will not make... I...
Morva: ...You are beyond reason. Therefore I, too, must do what I was born to do. As it was in that ancient battle... You will die here, Demon King.
Lyon: .......

Ephraim: This awful darkness...
Eirika: I know... I can feel it too.
Seth: This is Darkling Woods... It was here the heroes met the Demon King and with the Sacred Stones defeated him. I've heard the lingering energies of that battle are the source of the monsters. But I never imagined it would be as bad as this...
Myrrh: It's worse than before... It's grown so much stronger. Simply standing here is a struggle... But we don't need to worry. My father is here. He'll take care of everything.
Eirika: Your father?
Myrrh: Over there. On the other wise of that swamp is the Black Temple of the Demon King. My father stands guard near it. This is where my father and I have lived for as long as I can remember.
Ephraim: I see. So this forest is like a home to you.
Myrrh: Uh-huh... My foster father leads the dragon tribe. In the last great war...both of my true parents were killed. Morva took me in and raised me as though I were his own child.
Ephraim: So that's how you came to live here...
Myrrh: My father holds back the monsters that are born in Darkling Woods. He's so strong, and so very gentle. One day, I hope to be like him... .......Oh!
Ephraim: Myrrh, what is it?
Seth: Princess Eirika, Prince Ephraim, we're under attack. A horde of those foul beasts is headed straight for us.
Myrrh: .......
Ephraim: Myrrh, are you well? If you're ill, we should get you to--
Myrrh: No, no... It's nothing. I'll fight with you. I'll fight, and we'll drive back the dark children.

Lyon: Ha ha ha ha... Riev... I'm leaving this to you.
Riev: Heh heh heh... As you wish. Please proceed with the rites of resurrection, sire.

Lyon: Mm... hah hah... A moment more, and my rebirth will be unstoppable--irreversible. None remain who can stop me now.
Morva: So, you've returned, have you?
Lyon: Hm?
Morva: You can clothe yourself in human flesh, but you cannot hide your foul mien. Eight hundred years wasn't long enough, Demon King.
Lyon: One of the dragonkin, hm? Ah, I've seen your face before, lizard. Yes, during that accursed battle so long ago. When those wretched men bound me in their fetters. They fought with an ally from the dragonkin at their side... I believe his name was Morva.
Morva: The protection of the blessed stones is lost. The dark is rising. Malevolence given will and form now walks these lands unopposed. Ancient king of shadows... they appear to be waiting for you.
Lyon: Very perceptive. And now I am here. I must tell them their wait is over. I must tell them I have been reborn. Begone, dragon. I am changed. I can no longer be stopped by the likes of you.
Morva: I live and breathe to protect mankind. I cannot abandon them to you. Now, as it once did so long ago, these woods will witness your defeat.
Lyon: So, your dragon blood still runs so hot that you would dare to stop me? Dragons. That reminds me... Not long back, I fought a rabble of men who traveled with a dragon child. Tell me, Morva, was that your daughter?
Morva: ...Myrrh left this place long ago to test the limits of your influence. Could she have...?
Lyon: Could she have what? Pray, continue.
Morva: You will answer me. Your reply will determine...
Lyon: Ha ha ha ha ha... Such information has no use to you now. You have dared to challenge me. You have no time for joy or sorrow. No, best to focus now on this, the moment of your death. I would hate for you to miss it.

Ephraim: This awful darkness...
Eirika: I know... I can feel it too.
Seth: This is Darkling Woods... It was here the heroes met the Demon King and with the Sacred Stones defeated him. I've heard the lingering energies of that battle are the source of the monsters. But I never imagined it would be as bad as this...
Myrrh: It's worse than before... It's grown so much stronger. Simply standing here is a struggle... But we don't need to worry. My father is here. He'll take care of everything.
Eirika: Your father?
Myrrh: Over there. On the other wise of that swamp is the Black Temple of the Demon King. My father stands guard near it. This is where my father and I have lived for as long as I can remember.
Ephraim: I see. So this forest is like a home to you.
Myrrh: Uh-huh... I get to see Father again. I'm so happy. My foster father leads the dragon tribe. In the last great war... both of my true parents were killed. Morva took me in and raised me as though I were his own child.
Eirika: So that's how you came to live here...
Myrrh: My father holds back the monsters that are born in Darkling Woods. He's so strong, and so very gentle. One day, I hope to be like him... .......Oh!
Eirika: Myrrh, what's wrong?
Seth: Princess Eirika, Prince Ephraim, we're under attack. A horde of those foul beasts is headed straight for us.
Myrrh: .......
Eirika: Myrrh, are you well? If you're ill, we should get you to--
Myrrh: No, no... It's nothing. I'll fight with you. I'll fight, and we'll drive back the dark children.

@Battle 
Riev: Heh heh heh... Soon... soon... It happens soon! The Demon King will be restored to all his former glory! And I, his faithful servant, will bask in his radiant power... Then, oh, then I will have my revenge on those who scorned me! The Demon King has created for me a fine weapon--a draco zombie! This fierce beast and I will guard the Black Temple's entrance. As long as we watch, no one will interrupt his rituals. We will drown all who dare approach in this virulent mud! Heh heh heh... Heh heh heh heh heh!

@Boss 
Riev: Grr... Your eyes annoy me... Why do you not despair? Why do you not surrender?

Riev: Heh heh heh... Even if you defeat me, you're too late to stop it. The one true demon... will rise...

%L'Arachel,Riev
Riev: Heh heh heh. The young lady of Rausten... The more cruel and gruesome your death, the more that cur Mansel would weep, am I right? And that would make me so very, very happy.
L'Arachel: Do you think your words will frighten me? I am the princess L'Arachel! Slaying demons is my forte! You who have sold your soul to the soulless... I grant you release from your wretched existence.

%Myrrh,Morva
Myrrh: ...Urrgh... I'm... sorry...

@End 
Ephraim: So this is the Black Temple... The Demon King is here.
Eirika: We have to stop him before he can begin the ritual. Let's waste no time, Brother.

Myrrh: ...... I'm sorry... Father...
Eirika: Myrrh... What is it?
Myrrh: Um... I... I just met with my father. I had not seen or spoken with him for quite a while.
Eirika: You saw your father? Then we must speak with him--
Myrrh: No... He told me he couldn't see you. He said it wasn't a good idea for him to meet so many people. As the tribal chieftain, he feels he should maintain his distance.
Eirika: Is that so... That's too bad.
Myrrh: But he offered me words of encouragement and praised my efforts thus far. He told me in his kindly voice to come home to him safely. I will do my best to honor his faith in me.
Eirika: He sounds like a good father.
Myrrh: He is... Mistress Eirika... I'll do all I can. For my father--and for all of you as well. I will help you, and we will defeat the Demon King.
Eirika: Are you sure you want to go with us, Myrrh? You had so wanted to be with your father...
Myrrh: Yes... I'm sure. Once we are finished dealing with this evil, I will have time then. Let's hurry, Mistress Eirika.
Eirika: Myrrh... I understand. Let's get moving. The faster we can end this nightmare, the better.
Myrrh: From this building... a repulsive energy oozes. The Demon King... He's here.

Lyon: Urr... rrraa...
Fomortiis: Lyon... It's almost time. Your beloved Eirika is on her way.
Lyon: Eirika... Don't... come. It's... already...
Fomortiis: Ha ha... Lyon, prince of frailty. To believe that a weak man like you thought to oppose me... You're an arrogant little insect, nothing more. And now, you're dead... I will devour you, and you will be lost forever.
Lyon: Urr... ugh... Uh! Grrraaaaa!!
Fomortiis: Ha ha. Does it hurt? Are you suffering? Oh, but it does not end for you yet. Oh, no. I've left you this one shard of awareness for a reason. I want you to watch yourself as you crush Eirika. You should thank me! Ha ha... hah hah hah!
Lyon: Ei... Eirika...

Myrrh: ...... I’m sorry... Forgive me...Father...
Ephraim (off-screen): Myrrh! Where are you?!
Myrrh: Ah...
Ephraim: Here you are. Myrrh, we were worried... Myrrh? Are you...crying?
Myrrh: N-no... It’s nothing. The poison in these woods is thick. It burns my eyes.
Ephraim: What a minute... That dragon... Could he have been–
Myrrh: O-of course not... There’s nothing wrong. After everything you all have suffered, this is– I can’t... This is nothing...
Ephraim: Myrrh...
Myrrh: Ephraim...
Ephraim: I’m so sorry. You kept silent this whole time so as not to trouble us.
Myrrh: ... E-everything’s fine, Ephraim... I’m fine. See? I’m ready to...to...
Ephraim: Myrrh. Let yourself cry. These are dark times. There’s no reason to hide your sorrow.
Myrrh: Ephraim... I, I... ...Aaah... Sniff... Father... Father...

Lyon: ...Father! Hold on, please! Father!
Vigarde: Lyon... This is... the end for me. From now on... you...
Lyon: Don’t say that, Father.
Vigarde: You must concern yourself... with Grado... The people... our people must be saved... Lyon... tell me again. What will happen to Grado?
Lyon: I have seen it many times now, as have the court mages. It’s the same every time, Father. It’s always the same. Sometime in the coming years, the southern continent will collapse. Countless people will die instantly. Those who don’t will likely starve.
Vigarde: ......
Lyon: None but the mages and I know of the vision, as you ordered. But... if we don’t do something, all of those people will die. Please tell me, Father. What should I do? What...
Vigarde: Lyon... When I die... You will be emperor... The emperor... must protect his country. There is nothing more... that I can do. It’s you... You must protect our people.
Lyon: B-but, Father... I don’t have the power... Ah! R-Renais... If I ask Eirika and Ephraim for help, I’m sure they would–
Vigarde: You would ask Renais to rescue us from... a natural disaster? They would not help us... Grado’s borders would overflow with starving refugees by the thousands. Renais would close her borders to us. It’s only natural... Renais has a duty to protect herself.
Lyon: No, that would never–
Vigarde: Lyon... You are the one... who must... save our people. You must take my place... The citizens of Grado... are counting on...you...
Lyon: Father?! No...wait! I cannot do anything without you, Father!

Lyon: Fa...Father...
Knoll: His Highness...
Lyon: I am...weak. Because I am weak... people will die. I... (The scene change quickly, Lyon and Knoll in the Sacred Stone’s realm)
Knoll: Prince Lyon...
Lyon: Knoll... I... Open the seal on the Sacred Stone of Grado.
Knoll: The Sacred Stone? But that’s...
Lyon: You’ve seen the scrolls. You know there is a way to stop the coming disaster. If those scrolls are correct, the rites they describe can save all of Grado. But it will require a staggering amount of dark energy–and a sacrifice as well. The human body cannot contain the powers these rites demand... And yet... Of the five Sacred Stones, Grado’s alone possesses a greater power... It is the very prison housing the soul of the ancient Demon King. If we could harness its power, well... If we can do that, we can avert disaster and save countless lives.
Knoll: But you forget...
Lyon: I forget nothing! I know I am too weak. Because of me, all of Grado will be destroyed. I need... I need the Sacred Stone. I must become stronger. I will become stronger.

Lyon: Everything is in readiness. The Stones have been destroyed. The Demon King’s power swells. The Black Temple possesses all the demonic power I will need. The rites can begin. All that remains is for me to sacrifice my life... The disaster will be averted. My people will be saved...

/***EOF***/
@Intro 
Seth: Prince Ephraim, we've docked in Taizel. There's no sign of enemy troops at this time.
Ephraim: Understood. Let's move quickly and prepare to go ashore. We've a straight road to the capital from here, but we'll be fighting for every step.
Seth: Yes, and the fighting will only grow fiercer as we near the capital. If I may, my lord, I'd like to make a suggestion.

Saleh: This is the town, isn't it, Ewan?
Ewan: Yep. Thanks a lot, Teacher. This is where Marisa is supposed to be. I have to tell her what's going on, or she'll end up working for free.
Saleh: What happened? I heard there was some mistake, but...
Ewan: Yeah, the mercenary guild got Marisa mixed up with someone else. I don't know where she was supposed to go, but they sent her here instead. I figured I'd better let her know about the mix-up, right? So what are you going to do now?
Saleh: I'm heading back to the village. I've looked near and far, but I haven't been able to locate the Lord Dragon. I must report my findings.
Ewan: Oh, I see...
Saleh: I'll be going now. Remember what I told you, Ewan...
Ewan: I know, I know. Don't be reckless with magic.

Ewan: Well, I'd better get going and find Marisa. That looks like a good place to start asking around.

???: Ephraim... From the east...

Ephraim: ...That won't do, Seth. I cannot approve of sending reservists to the front lines.
Seth: But...the Grado army outnumbers our own by a tremendous amount. We have talented soldiers, but that counts for nothing against those numbers. Currently, we have some ready reservists in the rear, protecting our supply convoy. What good is defending our convoy if it comes at the cost of losing the front? We must abandon our rear guard and strengthen the van, or we've already lost.
Ephraim: This is enemy territory. We cannot surrender the convoy!
Seth: But, Prince Ephraim...
Ephraim: Seth, I know you only want to improve the odds of our success. And I know you only make these suggestions in part to protect me from harm. However, I have no intention of changing my mind in this. I--...Myrrh?
Myrrh: Oh, pardon...me... I-I... It's nothing.
Ephraim: Myrrh...

Soldier: Prince Ephraim! It's a trap! The city's crawling with Grado men! We're under attack!
Seth: Prince Ephraim.
Ephraim: All troops prepare to fight! To arms!

@Battle 
Caellach: Soldiers of Grado! You call yourselves warriors? You’re pathetic! Fort Rigwald? You lost it! Your General Duessel? A traitor! Where is the honor of the Grado Imperial Army? It wallows in filth and mud. Is this the ending you envisioned? Is this how you would be remembered? Will you let the bards sing of how you fell to the renegade Ephraim? I think not! Now get up and fight! Kill them all! And bring me Ephraim’s head!

Riev: Heh heh heh... Caellach. Interesting. What are you doing here? You were ordered to loose your dogs of war on Jehanna, were you not?
Caellach: Keep silent, you decrepit fool. I told you, Jehanna’s under control. My plan is in full effect. All we need do now is wait. You see, Jehanna is an overripe fruit. It’s being devoured by worms from within. We can pluck it anytime we wish.
Riev: Heh heh heh... Oh, how your plans seem to have gone awry. Even now, Eirika makes her way toward Jehanna. Your perfect fruit has turned to rot while you did nothing. It’s time. You will return to the capital with me.
Caellach: What?! Are you truly serious, you old goat? Glen... No, it’s that black-hearted Valter... What’s he playing at now?
Riev: There’s no call for that sort of talk. That one has his uses after all. You can leave the defeat of Ephraim to your subordinates. Oh yes, and you can use the troops I brought with me as well. It will, no doubt, be an interesting battle. Heh heh heh... Let’s go now, Caellach. You wouldn’t want to hurt a certain someone’s feelings, would you?
Caellach: Bah. What else can I do?

Ephraim: More of those fiends? What’s going on? Their movements... It’s... It’s as though those creatures are cooperating with Grado’s army...

@Visit 
Man: Ah... I wonder if that dancer will ever come this way again. I don’t know why, but her dances really pepped me up. Even after a hard day’s work, I felt as fresh as if I’d just woken up! It sure would be nice if she would dance for me again someday.

@Recruit-Visit
Ewan: Er, hello. My name’s Ewan. I’m training to be a sage. I need to find a woman by the name of Marisa. I don’t know where she’s done. If you’ll help me find her, I’ll gladly travel with you. I’m a useful guy to know. In a pinch, I can use the magic I’ve learned so far. So what do you say? Do we have a deal?

@Recruit-Talk 
%Ewan,Marisa 
Ewan: There you are, Marisa.
Marisa: Ewan? What are you doing here?
Ewan: Marisa, the mercenary guild sent you here, didn’t they? They assigned you to fight under Commander Gerik, right?
Marisa: That’s right. But the chief’s not here.
Ewan: I know. It was all a mistake. Your commander’s over there, working on another job. He wants you to join him.
Marisa: Really? He said that?
Ewan: Yep.
Marisa: I’m on my way.
Ewan: Hey, wait! Wait! Take me with you! This group’s headed east, too. Let’s stick with them for now.
Marisa: Very well.

@End 
Seth: The enemy troops have been defeated. We're taking care of the wounded now.
Ephraim: Understood. We'll rest in this city until we're prepared to advance. Replenish supplies and rest the troops. Remind every soldier that anyone who breaks the city's laws will be severely punished. Anything else?
Seth: We should prepare defenses along the east in case of assault. The capital's not far, and fresh troops could be here at any time.
Ephraim: Good point. All right, set up three rotating watches. Then--

Myrrh: ...Pardon me, Ephraim...

Ephraim: Myrrh's gone? Are you sure?
Seth: Yes, she's been missing since this morning. There are no signs of a struggle. I feel she left of her own accord.
Ephraim: Where did she go? Didn't anyone see her?
Seth: One of the guards reports having seen a young lady heading east. He said she seemed unsteady on her feet. It may have been her.
Ephraim: Prepare to move out. We head east.
Seth: Prince Ephraim...
Ephraim: I'm not just acting on emotion, Seth. The capital lies to the east as well.
Seth: ...
Ephraim: Seth, you will obey your commander and sovereign, do you hear me? Listen, I know what you said is true. I am king in all but title now. I know I must place my duty as commander above my life as a man. And once I am crowned, I most certainly will do exactly that. However, I am not ready to divorce myself from my compassion just yet. I will find the balance somehow, the means to save my country and her people. That is the king I wish to become, and so that is the man I must be. I need your help in this, Seth.
Seth: ...I understand, Prince Ephraim. If that is your decision, then I will do my best to assist you.
Ephraim: I'm counting on it. Please be safe, Myrrh.
/***EOF***/
@Intro 
Soldier: Princess Tana! Grado’s forces are approaching!
Tana: What? So soon? Ah, we’ve had no time!
Soldier: Milady, we lack the arms to defend this place. You must return to Castle Frelia.
Tana: I can’t! Not yet. We haven’t found Eirika and her companions yet. Eirika is my friend, and she needs my help. I won’t abandon her. Oh, I know! Go and ask Father– I mean King Hayden for more troops.
Soldier: Yes, Your Highness!
 
Tana: Eirika, please be safe.
 
Soldier: Commander Breguet, the enemy appears to be fortifying its position in the castle.
Breguet: Hmph. They’re tenacious, but they have no hope of stopping our advance.
Soldier: What are your orders, sir?
Breguet: Ha! Orders? You just stand here and watch. I’ll crush them myself!
Soldier: As you command, sir.
 
Breguet: Ha! That’s what happens when you face my lance!
 
Tana: St-stop right there! Call off your forces and turn back, or you’ll have me to deal with!
Breguet: Is that so? And who might you be?
Tana: Who–? I am Tana, Princess of Frelia. I will not permit you to abuse my country any longer.
Breguet: Frelia’s royal brat, huh? How convenient...
Tana: Leave this castle immediately. If you harm me, my father and brother will chase you to the earth’s end.
Breguet: Yes, I’ve heard of how King Hayden dotes on his precious little daughter. Let’s see how true that is. You’ll make us a fine hostage, my dear. Seize the girl and lock her up!
Soldier: Right away, sir!
Tana: No! Let me go!
 
Eirika: Seth, look...
Seth: I see it. It seems like Grado’s army has already reached Frelia. Princess, this place is perilous. We should bypass Mulan altogether and head straight to the castle.
Eirika: But we can’t just ignore this... You were there when Renais was invaded... You saw what I saw. You saw how the people suffered at the hands of Grado’s soldiers. Homes were destroyed, possessions stolen, women kidnapped... Anyone who resisted was executed without question, without hesitation.
Seth: ...
Eirika: Please, Seth. I can’t allow that to happen here. I don’t want to see any more people harmed by Grado’s atrocities.
Seth: All right, Princess. I understand. Perhaps we can retake Mulan. But, Princess, you must act with caution. Your people need you, too.
Eirika: Of course, Seth. Come on! Let’s go!

@Battle 
Breguet: Hm? Is that the princess of Renais? Ha ha! It really is my lucky day! Fame and fortune ride to meet me! Move on, you slugs! Bring that girl to me!
 
Franz: Sir Gilliam, is that Mulan? Have we reached Frelia’s border already?
Gilliam: Aye, we have. Her Highness Princess Tana should be inside the castle.
Franz: But look — the countryside is crawling with Grado soldiers! Where’s the castle guard! Has Mulan fallen? Are we too late?
Gilliam: Too tough to say from here. Princess Tana’s in no danger if they want her as a bargaining tool. We men of the Eastern Watch will see her to safety.
Franz: Yes...Yes, of course. We mustn’t give up. We must move. We must retake the castle. Then, we ride forth to Princess Eirika’s aid.
Gilliam: I’ve stronger armor then you do. I’ll take the lead. Watch my back.

@Battle-Talk 
%Franz,Eirika
Franz: Princess Eirika, it is good to see you’re well.
Eirika: Franz, you made it through unscathed...
Franz: Y-yes, Your Highness! I met up with Sir Gilliam of Frelia and explained the situation in Renais. He told me that Princess Tana was in danger as well, here at Mulan. We rode as swiftly as we could.
Eirika: Tana is here? Franz, we must hurry!
Franz: Understood!
 
%Franz,Seth
Seth: Is that you, Franz? I’m relieved to see you’re still in one piece!
Franz: Y-yes... and you as well, General. As long as you lead us, sir, the Knights of Renais cannot lose!
Seth: Franz, you and I must work together to protect Princess Eirika. I want you to ride with us.
Franz: Sir! With honor, sir!

@Visit 
Man: The rumors are true, aren’t they? The Grado army’s taken over the castle. It looks like they’ve seized the castle gate, too. Smart work–the gate provides defense and heals wounds to boot. They must be fierce warriors to have taken the gate. Watch yourself.
 
Man: That knight encamped at the castle was wearing the finest armor I’ve seen. It looked like it could turn aside almost any blade you swing at it. I know my armor, though. I wager a good rapier or armorslayer could get through it.
 
@Boss
Breguet: Bah, what a worthless lot of curs I’ve been assigned!
 
Breguet: This...this can’t be... I...

@Battle 
Soldier: I’ve found them! Stragglers from Renais! Don’t let them get away!
 
@End
Gilliam: Princess Tana.
Tana: Sir Gilliam... I’m sorry, I never meant to cause you such trouble.
Gilliam: It was no trouble. I live to serve, Princess.
Eirika: Tana!
Tana: ...Eirika?!? Is that really you?
Eirika: Tana, what are you doing, so far form Castle Frelia?
Tana: I heard that Renais had fallen, and I was so worried... But I’m glad to see that you’re safe... Wait! Where is Ephraim? Is he well?
Eirika: I wish I knew.
Tana: You haven’t heard from him? Oh, I hope he’s not been harmed... Come, we must go to Castle Frelia. My lord father may know something.
Eirika: Thank you, Tana.

@Dialogue 
Hayden: Oh, Tana... I’m grateful to see that you’re safe and home again! You’ve no idea how I worried when I heard you were under attack at Border Mulan. You are not to leave again without my permission. Do you understand?
Tana: Don’t be mad, Father. Look, I come bearing good news. Eirika! Come out now!
Eirika: King Hayden, I am please to see you again, even in these sad times.
Hayden: Ah, Eirika! It does my heart good to see you safe.
Eirika: Thank you. I was able to escape the castle before Renais fell. But I’m not sure if my father...
Hayden: Yes. I... have received word of your father.
Eirika: Your Highness? Please tell me. If my father well?
Hayden: ...My friend King Fado...did not survive the fall of Renais Castle.
Eirika: ...No, it cannot be...
Seth: ......
Hayden: Rest assured, Grado will be punished for its cowardly act. This is Frelia’s promise. Eirika, please stay here and rest. I cannot imagine how exhausted you must be.
Eirika: ......
Seth: King Hayden. You know of Prince Ephraim’s disappearance, do you not?
Hayden: Yes, we hear the prince and his men hound Grado at every turn. It’s said that he’s led his forces into the empire itself. Reports suggest he’s crossed the border and now fights in Renvall.
Eirika: My brother... He fights on? Even now?
Hayden: Yes. My pegasus knights bought this information at a great price. Even though Renais has fallen, he charges into the enemy’s heart. He is truly Fado’s son... What a valiant youth. I wish I knew whether he remains unharmed, but I do not.
Eirika: King Hayden, I thank you for your offer, but I cannot stay. I intend to ride to my brother’s side with reinforcements.
Hayden: I cannot allow it. I know how you feel, but this plan is suicide. I would be betraying Fado’s memory if I allowed any harm to befall you. Stay here. Rest and mourn. Leave this war to the warriors.
Eirika: I know you mean well, Your Majesty. However, I have lost my father, and my twin brother is in peril. My brother, he is a part of me... I cannot rest here in peace while he risks his life.
Hayden: No. Renais has no more army. Grado’s forces decimated it. I wish Frelia could provide you with support, with soldiers, but... My son, Innes, is on his way to meet the empire’s forces. We cannot spare a single brigade. Your own retinue of knights cannot possibly face Grado alone. Are you so determined to go?
Eirika: Yes. ...With apologies.
Hayden: ...As resolute as your father, eh? What am I to do in the face of such foolhardy determination? Vanessa.
Vanessa: Here, Your Highness!
Hayden: Moulder.
Moulder: You called, my king?
Hayden: Gilliam.
Gilliam: Yes, sire?
Hayden: You are to accompany Princess Eirika of Renais into Grado territory. I expect each of you to provide aid and support for her brother.
Gilliam: Hmm. Quite a grave responsibility you’ve given us.
Vanessa: No matter the obstacles, we will perform our duty.
Gilliam: Our lives are yours.
Hayden: These are some of my most trusted and stalwart vassals. They will, no doubt, prove themselves quite valuable on your journey. Remember, you are venturing behind enemy lines. You will need supplies. I will have a supply convoy readied to carry your weapons and provisions. It will remain at your side, no matter how far afield you venture.
Eirika: King Hayden, I... Thank you.
Hayden: No, save your thanks for your return... with your brother, Prince Ephraim.
Eirika: Yes, Your highness!
 
Tana: Eirika, you don’t really intend to go through with this, do you? I can’t guess how you must feel, but its’ just too dangerous. What would happen if you were captured by Grado’s men?
Eirika: Thank you for your concern, Tana. But I have no choice. Don’t you see, Tana? I have to go.
Tana: Eirika... Oh, why is this happening? What’s gone wrong with the world?
Eirika: Tana...
Tana: Why would Grado invade? Emperor Vigarde is a man of peace. His people adore him. And you and Ephraim are friends with Prince Lyon, are you not? What could be behind this madness? Why is this happening...
Eirika: I have no answers for you, Tana. I don’t want to believe it, but the reality is that we are at war. If I do nothing, I may lose my brother as well as my father. This is why I have to fight. It’s the only answer I have.

/***EOF***/
@Opening 
Eirika and company pursue the thief who stole her bracelet. Their chase leads them into the mountains, where Bazba’s Bandits pillage at will. Eirika cannot ignore her countrymen’s pleas for help. She leads her group in search of the bandits’ stronghold.

@Intro 
Seth: The local villagers tell me that Bazba’s Bandits keep their lair nearby. A few of them saw a lad matching the description of our bracelet thief. It seems a fair guess that the youth is one of these bandits.
Eirika: Bandits...Here in Renais, our homeland. I had no idea... Burning out villages...Stealing from out people with no fear of reprisal?
Seth: It wasn’t always like this. The knights used to protect the citizenry... However, with Renais in ruins and her army tattered, law and order are hard to find. It doesn’t look like the Grado army is interested in maintaining order here. If nothing changes, Renais will continue this sad plunge into savagery.
Eirika: ......
Neimi: Uh...Hello?
 
Neimi: Pardon me for asking... but are you all some sort of...mercenary troop?
Eirika: Why do you ask?
Neimi: P-p-please, you have to help Colm. You have to! I told him it was too dangerous, but he wouldn’t listen to me!
Eirika: Please, you must calm yourself. Start at the beginning, and speak slowly.
Neimi: All right...Sniff. I’m Neimi. I’m from... I used to be from a village named Lark... Except the village is gone.
Eirika: Gone? What do you mean?
Neimi: Bazba’s Bandits burned it down. Only Colm and I escaped. The other villagers... The bandits attacked them and...
Eirika: ......
Seth: Neimi, what are you doing here?
Neimi: Bazba’s Bandits... They have a hideout here in these mountains. That’s where Colm... Um, Colm’s my...uh...We’ve known each other since we were kids. He went to steal back something the bandits took from me...
Eirika: He went alone? That’s a very dangerous thing...
Neimi: Yes, I know. Th-that’s what I told him, but he wouldn’t listen to me. If I lose Colm, too, I don’t know... I...I’ll... sniff...
Eirika: Wait, please don’t cry. Don’t worry. We’ll find your friend and see that he’s not harmed.
Neimi: Really? Really and truly? Oh, thank you! Thank you!!! I... I don’t have much money, but.. I’ll do anything to help.
Seth: Your Highness? What will it be?
Eirika: If the thief we’re after has gone to the bandits?lair as well... Well, it seems as though we share a common cause with Neimi. She is a citizen of Renais, after all. And isn’t it our duty to defend our countrymen? I’m only sad that we weren’t here to protect her friends and neighbors... So, yes, I feel we must help her.
Seth: Very well. Neimi, I trust you can lead the way?
Neimi: Er, yes... It’s this way.
 
Neimi: Um... Is there anything I can do to help? I feel so... When I was little I used to go hunting with my grandfather. What I mean is I can– I’m not bad with a bow.
Seth: Really?
Neimi: Uh-huh.
Seth: I see. You should remain behind and protect Princess Eirika.
 
Bazba: Hm. Not sure who’s out there, but it looks like we’ve got guests. Let’s give ’em a warm welcome, lads. You see a stranger, stick an axe in him!

Colm: And here we go! Ha! And not a soul saw me. These bandits are easy picking. I guess I might as well start with these chests here.

@Recruit-Talk 
%Neimi,Colm
Neimi: C-Colm...
Colm: Neimi?! What are you doing here? I told you to wait for me, didn’t I?
Neimi: I couldn’t... It’s too dangerous. C’mon, let’s go home.
Colm: We don’t have a home! Don’t you get it? Look, just leave everything to me. I can take care of it in a flash, but I don’t need a clumsy oaf like you tagging along.
Neimi: But...but...
Colm: Oh, this is ridiculous. We’ll talk later. Don’t leave my side, Neimi.
Neimi: I–All right.

@Boss 
Bazba: I’m the head of this bandit pack, the mighty Bazba! Hope you’ve enjoyed your life, ‘cuz it’s about to end!
 
Bazba: I’m the...mighty...Bazba... This...ain’t–

@End 
Neimi: C-Colm...
Colm: What now? I told you not to worry. I could’ve robbed these bandits blind on my own, thank you very much.
Neimi: I was... worried...
Colm: H-Hold on! I’m sorry! C’mon! Don’t start bawling!
Neimi: Aaah...sniff... No more...dangerous stuff... by yourself...
Colm: Fine, fine. I promise. But you have to stop crying all the time. All right?
Neimi: Uh-huh...
Colm: Oh, yeah. Take a look at this.
Neimi: Hm?
Colm: I got your mirror back. Remember how you cried when we left Lark? You thought you’d lost this. I knew it was your mother’s, and I knew those thugs had taken it. So I went and got it back! See what happens when you give me a job? Guaranteed results!
Neimi: Colm... Aa...Waaah... Colm...
Colm: Hey Wh-why are you crying this time? C’mon! Stop! Knock it off! Please, Neimi...
Seth: ...This is quite touching, but... I think you’d best return Princess Eirika’s bracelet to her now.
Colm: Wh-what are you talking about? Are you trying to say that I–
 
Colm: Whoa! Whoa there! Hold it! It’s right here! Take it!
 
Seth: ...... Tell me, boy, is this the path you’ve chosen for your life? If this girl matters to you, you must quit this dark road.
Colm: Uh, yeah...Right.
Seth: We’re leaving. Do not expect to be rescued again. Farewell.
Colm: ...Hey, wait! Let us go with you. You can’t just leave us here.
Seth: Pardon?
Colm: Neimi and I... We’ve got no home to return to. No matter where we go, there’s just gonna be more fighting. You’re mercenaries, right? Well, then take us with you. I’m a handy guy to have around. I know I can help you out.
Seth: I would prefer not, but I’ll agree with Eirika’s decision. Our duty is a grave one however. We’ve no time to waste shepherding you.
Colm: That’s fine with us You just wait– I promise you won’t regret your decision.
 
Seth: I retrieved your bracelet from the bandit’s stronghold. Here you are, Princess.
Eirika: Thank you, Seth. You know...Father gave me this bracelet when I was a child. It has only one match in the world, and my brother wears it.
Seth: Lady Eirika, you must take care never to lose that bracelet. It is the proof that King Fado entrusted the future of Renais to you, his children.
Eirika: Seth...What is it you’re not telling me?
Seth: ...I apologize, Your Highness. When the times comes, I will tell you what I know. Until then, I...
Eirika: I see. If you tell me it must wait, then it can wait. I trust you.
Seth: Then we should get moving again. We’re safe from bandits for now, but I can’t guarantee for how long.
Eirika: This... This is just the beginning, isn’t it? If we hope to free out homeland, it will take battle after battle...
Seth: I’m afraid so, Your Highness. The day you and Prince Ephraim win back the freedom and honor of Renais will come. But I fear it lies at the end of a long and treacherous road.
Eirika: I know. I must fight for that day. In the names of all those I could not save, I’ll lead us home. Let’s go. My brother awaits!
 
Selena: General Duessel.
Duessel: Selena. Have you been back long? Tell me, how fares the campaign in Renais?
Selena: Signs of chaos abound. Brigands ride without fear, and the peasant’s cries fill the air.
Duessel: Hmm... If Grado’s troops do not enforce public order, the situation will only worsen. And still, His Majesty has given us no orders. Perhaps, just this once, I should take the lead...
Glen: What could His Majesty be thinking? Breaking our long-held alliance with Renais–invading without warning... He’s never been this way before. He abhors violence.
Selena: ......
Glen: And have you noticed the recent promotions? Who are they are going to? Certainly not to the soldiers who have Grado’s best interests at heart. I feel this invasion is the prelude to a much larger war. I feel as though His Majesty is no longer the man we knew him to be.
Selena: Glen, it doesn’t matter what any of us might think of our orders. We are his servants, and we will not question His Majesty’s intentions.
Glen: I know that, Selena. And yet...
Duessel: That’s enough. Both of you. His Majesty summons us. Let’s hope we can learn a little during our audience.
 
Vigarde: ...I appreciate your work in fulfilling your previous orders. You are the hammers that drive the nails of the empire’s will... You will continue to operate ...without hesitation... wherever I send you.
Duessel: By your command.
Selena: In Your Majesty’s name.
Glen: Yes, sire...
Vigarde: ...However, I know this... You, my Imperial Three, lack the strength to conquer the remaining nations alone. In the invasion of Renais, certain soldiers performed beyond expectation. I have chosen them to join you as new generals in the empire’s service. ...Come.
 
Vigarde: ...The performance of these men surpassed even your own. With the addition of these three... The empire will have six generals strong enough to conquer this land. Do you understand?
Riev: Heh heh heh... I am Riev, given the name Blood Beryl by His Majesty. I know I am a newcomer, but I pray for your favor.
Duessel: ...Understood.
Caellach: I’m Caellach. I was a mercenary, fighting in the desert. Seems I’m to be called Tiger Eye... You’re a fine lookin’ lass, aren’t you? Yeah, I’m gonna love working with you.
Selena: ......
Valter: So we meet again. You know me as General Valter, but you will call me the Moonstone. I’ll save you worthless dogs from your own incompetence. You’ll thank me later.
Glen: Valter... You scum!
Duessel: Peace, Glen.
Vigarde: Selena. Caellach. You will bring me Frelia.
Selena: Yes, sire.
Caellach: Sure. Good as done.
Vigarde: Riev. Duessel. You are charged with the defense of the empire. ...I will speak to you individually with more details later.
Riev: Heh heh heh... Understood, Your Majesty.
Duessel: By your command, sire.
Valter: And me?
Vigarde: Valter, Glen... I have other duties for you...
Glen: Yes, Your Majesty?
Vigarde: Renais has fallen, but Princess Eirika still eludes us... Her brother, Prince Ephraim, leads a resistance within our borders. Bring the siblings to me.
Valter: Ha ha.. Of course.
Glen: ......

/***EOF***/
@Opening
Thanks to the arrival of reinforcements from Princess L’Arachel of Rausten, Eirika and her allies successfully repel the Grado invaders. Still, Jehanna Hall remains under siege, on the edge of ruin. En route, Eirika learns that the hall has indeed been captured by Grado. To rescue Queen Ismaire and recover Jehanna’s Sacred Stone, Eirika leads an assault on the royal hall.

@Flashback 
Lyon: ...I yield. The point is yours, Eirika. You’re swift, aren’t you? Compared to you, I’m– I’ve been bested at fencing by a woman. Pitiful crown prince, am I not?
Eirika: That’s not true...
Lyon: Oh, no, Eirika. It is. The people need a strong ruler. They don’t want a weakling like me. They want the strength you and Ephraim share. My body is frail. I prefer to spend my time locked away in the castle, reading... I think my father would be better served if someone else took my place. I’m sure all of our retainers feel the same...
Eirika: You’re wrong, Lyon. An emperor without compassion will never hold the people’s love. And one day, your compassion will surely save us all. I believe that.
Lyon: Eirika... Thank you. Yes. I...I will do my best. Even though I lack your strength, there must be some good I can do.
Eirika: There is.
Lyon: By the way, Eirika... If it please you, would you accept this?

@Intro 
Seth: Princess Eirika? Is there something wrong?
Eirika: N-no. It’s nothing.
Seth: Jehanna Hall has been completely occupied by Grado soldiers. I’m sorry to report that Queen Ismaire is already...
Innes: And the one giving orders to the troops in the palace is Crown Prince Lyon?
L’Arachel: What is there to give us pause? Should we not storm the palace and retake it by strength of arms?
Innes: Frelia’s spy network reports that Prince Lyon is an initiate of dark magic. If this is true, even approaching him will be a serious challenge. I’d heard the prince dislikes violence. However, it could all have been a ruse.
Eirika: .......
Innes: Still, if we don’t retake the palace, we’ve no hope of defeating Grado. We must rescue the queen, no matter the cost...
Eirika: I understand. Let’s go!
 
Carlyle: Queen Ismaire... Please do not resist. I have no desire to see you harmed.
Ismaire: Carlyle... Why have you betrayed us? After all these years of loyal service as Jehanna’s most decorated commander... Without you, I could not have ruled these long years since my husband’s passing. It was through your unwavering support alone that I still sit upon the throne. You are the cornerstone of Jehanna. You have held my trust more than any man. So tell me why. Why have you betrayed us? Why have you betrayed me?
Carlyle: Your Highness–No... My queen... Ismaire... It is your own fault. You are too lovely, my queen.
Ismaire: Carlyle...
Carlyle: The first time I met you, twenty years ago now... I saw you in the garden of this very palace... and I was bewitched. Your pale beauty far surpassed that of any flower. I was in the grips of an unforgivable desire. You were the wife of my king, to whom I’d sworn life and loyalty. I told myself a grand lie that day. I told myself I could be happy simply serving you as your most loyal knight.
Ismaire: ......
Carlyle: After years of duty, years of service, years of...of silence... I became aware once more of the feelings I’d buried deep within myself. How could I leave this world without expressing my true desires? Could anything be more desolate? More devoid of meaning? That is when I made my decision. I would follow my heart and claim your hand as my own.
Ismaire: Carlyle... You forget yourself. You ruin our country and kill our countrymen. Did you think I would be pleased? Did you think I would love you for this?
Carlyle: I need no country. I care nothing for my countrymen. I can see nothing but you. If you would only be mine...
Ismaire: Carlyle...

@Battle 
Soldier: To arms, mercenaries. We’re under attack! You there! Ready your weapons!
Rennac: What?!? No, no, no. That was never part of the deal. The only fight I’m here for is with the locks of the treasure chamber.
Soldier: Hah... Don’t get so excited. I doubt you mercenaries will see any action at all once we soldiers’ve finished.
Rennac: Yeah, great. You go do that. Whew... With all these soldiers around, I shouldn’t have to lift a finger. I’ll just sit here and wait for them to win they day. Then, I collect my pay! No more being ordered around by that selfish princess and her moronic bodyguard. This is the life. Lady Luck loves me. But something doesn’t feel right...
 
Caellach: Hey, Carlyle! Impressive work you’ve done here. My compliments.
Carlyle: ...I gave you everything I promised. I opened the hall to your forces.
Caellach: Yes. The palace is mine. My palace... Oh, how I do like the sound of that.
Carlyle: Do whatever you want with the royal treasury. The only treasure I wish to leave here with is the queen of my heart.
Caellach: Oh, yeah, about your queen?.. There’s been a change of plans.
 
Ismaire: Ah!
Caellach: Don’t move, Carlyle. You twitch, and the queen dies.
Carlyle: Blackheart! What is the meaning of this?
Caellach: Calm down. You’ll get her back as soon as I’m done with her. Jehanna’s Sacred Stone is around here somewhere. I’ve got to find it and destroy it. I need this woman to guide me to its hiding place.
Carlyle: Do not lay a hand on my queen!
Carlyle: Don’t get so incensed. I’m not going to harm her. I’m not like that freak Valter. I’m kind to women. But if you make a wrong move, you’ll lose your prize. Understood?
Carlyle: Yes...
Caellach: There are some annoying pests outside who think to win back the hall. I want you to take care of them. Lose, and the queen will never be yours.
Carlyle: ...... If my queen comes to any harm in your care...
Caellach: Yes, of course. I know all about the might of your sword arm. As long as the Sacred Stone is destroyed, you’ll get all you ask for.
Lyon: ......
Caellach: Greetings, Prince. Let’s get going.
Lyon: Caellach... You will put an end to this. Destroying the Sacred Stones is... Ugh...ack...
Caellach: What’s this? Are you still ill? You know, you’re not very princely. C’mon. Follow me.
Lyon: Caellach...

@Recruit-Talk 
%Eirika,Rennac
Rennac: Hey, that’s a comely lass. Think I’ll have a few words... Wait. Er, haven’t I met you before?
Eirika: You... You were traveling with L’Arachel before, weren’t you?
Rennac: Oh, yeah... Renais... I’ve got to get–
Eirika: L’Arachel is traveling with us. Should I let her know you’re here?
Rennac: Uh, no! Wait a moment! You... You don’t have to bother her. Actually I wanted to ask you something. How would you like to hire me? The name’s Rennac. I’m a world-class thief, and proud of it. A man of many talents. Lockpicks are for amateurs. I can pick chests and doors with my bare hands. And I’m better with a blade than most swordsmen.
Eirika: Uh...
Rennac: I’m a useful fellow to have around. And cheap, too! Only 9,980 gold! Well, what do you think?
Eirika: Fine. I’ll pay the 9,980 gold.
Rennac: Very good! You know a bargain when you see one, don’t you? Not at all like a certain pious princess I know.
Eirika: Were you speaking of L’Arachel?
Rennac: Uh, no... Idle chitchat about that lass is bound to land me in hot water. Right, then! You’re my new boss. Point out any doors or chests, and get out of my way!

%L'Arachel,Rennac
L’Arachel: Aha! So this is where you’ve wandered off to, Rennac!
Rennac: Princess L’Arachel? Uh-oh, um...
L’Arachel: Come with me.
Rennac: Wait... hold on now. Go with you where? Look, sorry, but I’ve been hired by the Grado Empire, and... Hello! I’m talking to you!
L’Arachel: Rennac, whatever is the matter? I promise to listen to your story later, but now, we must be going!
Rennac: No, I’m no servant, like that kook Dozla. I’m a mercenary. I escorted you to Renais like I was hired to do, didn’t I? You have no right to drag me across creation without any pay whatsoever!
L’Arachel: Is this about wages? I believe you’ve received ample compensation.
Rennac: Ample?! Do you even know what that word means? You’ve the princess of Rausten! I thought working for you would pay well. Yet your purse strings are knotted tight, and I’ve almost been killed so many–
L’Arachel: The joy that comes from doing good is not something that can be purchased. There. All better? Let’s go.
Rennac: NO! I said I don’t want to! Riding with you is– ...And there she goes. Oh...By the Stones, why did I ever take that job in the first place?
L’Arachel: We must hurry, Rennac.
Rennac: Right, right. I’m coming...

@Boss 
Carlyle: I...I just wanted the two of us...
 
Carlyle: Queen Ismaire. I’m–

@End 
Caellach: This is as good a place as any. All right, Your Majesty. Hand over the Sacred Stone.
Ismaire: ...I know nothing of the Sacred Stone’s keeping place.
Caellach: Don’t waste me time. My partner here sees everything. When the rebellion began, you went straight to the palace altar. You had hoped to prevent us from smashing the Sacred Stone. But you have the Stone of Jehanna with you right now, don’t you?
Ismaire: ......
Caellach: Hand it over. Cooperate, and I’ll let you live.
Ismaire: ...I cannot.
Caellach: Oh, give it up, will you? I’ve no time for games. If you resist, I’ll just kill you and take it anyway.
Lyon: H-hold! You mustn’t harm her, Caellach...
Caellach: Shut up, Prince. My orders come from higher than you. You’ve not going to start disobeying his word, are you?
Lyon: ......
Caellach: Last chance. Give me your Sacred Stone.
Ismaire: ...I cannot.
Caellach: Ha ha! A queen to the end. I like you. You’ve got guts. Good-bye.
Lyon: Ah!
 
Caellach: And here’s the Sacred Stone. That makes two for me. I’m on a roll now.
 
Caellach: And another Sacred Stone has been destroyed. Grado, Frelia, and now Jehanna... Only two stones remain.
Ismaire: Uuh...ahh...
Lyon: Ah... What should I do? C-Caellach... You must help her.
Caellach: Leave her. Let her last breath be a harsh and ragged rasp. She’s not long for this world. Why, if you really wanted to help her, you’d deliver the final blow yourself!
Lyon: N-no. I couldn’t.
Caellach: ...What a joke. I have a little work to wrap up in the hall before we leave. You should hit the road pretty soon, too, Prince.
Lyon: ......
 
Eirika: I wonder where Queen Ismaire is.
Innes: I heard she was in the throne room, but there’s no sight of her. And there’s no Sacred Stone, either.
L’Arachel: We must search quickly.
 
Lyon: Ah...
Eirika: Lyon!
Lyon: Eirika...
Eirika: Wait, Lyon! Don’t run away! My brother and I have been so worried about you... We know more then anyone the gentleness of your spirit. Your father is deranged, isn’t he? That’s why Grado invaded Renais, right? Tell me, Lyon... Please... Tell me what has happened.
Lyon: I’m sorry, Eirika. I’ve wanted to see you and Ephraim for so long now... I wanted to see you so that I could apologize. The invasion of Renais... I couldn’t stop it. I’m sorry, but I still cannot talk to you. Not yet...
Eirika: You... You have a reason, don’t you?
Lyon: Mm... I can’t talk about it now, but... I promise I will tell you everything someday.
Eirika: I see... I believe you, Lyon. I must tell you, I’m a little relieved. I was afraid you’d changed as much as your poor father has. I’m so glad.
Lyon: Me, too, Eirika... No, you have changed. You’re even more beautiful than you were before.
Eirika: L-Lyon...
Lyon: I’m sorry, I have to go. But please remember this. This war started because I was too weak to stop it, but... I’ll always be your friend.
Eirika: Lyon...
 
L’Arachel: Eirika, what are you doing? It seems Queen Ismaire has been found. This way!
Eirika: Y-yes. Coming!
 
Innes: Queen Ismaire... Is she...
Seth: We’re too late. Her injuries are... She will not last much longer.
Ismaire: ...Jo...Joshua... ...Joshua...
Eirika: Queen Ismaire!
Ismaire: Oh, Joshua... Where is...that boy...
Eirika: Queen Ismaire...
Ismaire: Please forgive me, Joshua... I was a foolish mother... I was so intent on being queen that I spared no time to be your mother. But I loved you nonetheless... Please understand...
 
Joshua: ..... I know, Mother.
Eirika: Joshua...
Ismaire: Joshua... It really is you... Joshua...my son...
Joshua: I’m sorry, Mother. I should never have left you. I’ve no excuse... I wanted to see the world as a man, not as a prince. I wanted to be worthy. I planned on returning to your side afterward... I was so foolish. If I’d been here, I could have–
Ismaire: No, it’s fine. You’re here now... Listen to me, Joshua. The Stone of Jehanna has... been destroyed. The one who tempted Carlyle is responsible...
Joshua: What? Who was it?
Ismaire: ...Carried a dark stone... It is...the origin of all this... It should not exist... Joshua...you must... Our country...our people...
Joshua: I understand, Mother.
Ismaire: Thank you...Joshua... I have something... Something I must give you...
Joshua: This is...
Ismaire: It’s one of the Sacred Twin relics, unique to House Jehanna... He who would rule our land must possess it... I’ve watched over it since your father passed away. I kept it safe and waited for this day to come...
Joshua: Mother... I have it now. I understand its meaning...
Ismaire: Joshua... My...dear, sweet child...
 
Joshua: Mother...
 
 
Joshua: It’s been more than ten years. I’d grown tied of the formality of palace life, so I...just left. I wrote a farewell and left the palace, taking nothing with me. I felt I could never understand the people while I stayed sequestered in a castle. I abandoned my identity and roamed the continent, working where I could. I wanted only to be worthy of becoming king. I knew one day I would return. Gods, I was so foolish! I was such a child, I see it now. Was I simply rebelling against my mother? Punishing her for tending to her duties?
Eirika: ......
Joshua: I was a fool, yes, but I learned much over these ten years. I have learned about the hearts of our people, how they need to be governed. I have learned how our country needs to change and to grow. I have learned much, but I’ve lost much more. Mother...
Eirika: Prince Joshua...
Joshua: I made a promise. I want to continue what she began. I will help defeat Grado. I will defend Jehanna and her allies. ...I know it doesn’t sound like me, but...
Innes: On behalf of Frelia, I came to Jehanna with a letter to the throne. I give it to you. Prince Joshua of Jehanna... Let us fight together.
L’Arachel: Renais, Frelia, Rausten, and Jehanna. Four nations...united!
Eirika: Yes, I suppose that’s true. And my brother is with us as well. And if it were possible... Lyon... I wish you could be here with us, too.
 
Soldier: Fire! Fires have broken out all through the hall!
Joshua: What?
Soldier: The curtains were soaked in oil, with torches set about the hall. It’s a trap! Someone did this during all the fighting. You must flee! Quickly, before the flames engulf us all!
 
Seth: Princess Eirika. We must evacuate...
Eirika: I know. Joshua, we must go. Now.
Joshua: No... Mother... Forgive me...
 
Eirika: Is everyone well? Did anyone get left behind?
L’Arachel: We all made it. It’s so smoky that it’s hard to tell, but we’re here. What a cowardly act, setting fire to the palace hall. But we’ve escaped without injury. The enemy’s trap has failed.
Innes: ...No, it hasn’t. Assemble the troops now. The enemy is coming.
L’Arachel: What did you say?
Innes: This is the reason for the fire. To drive us from the palace. They’ll be attacking soon. No other plan makes sense.
L’Arachel: How is it that you know that?
Seth: Princess Eirika. I’ve just received word that Grado reinforcements are headed this way. There are two armies, led by Generals Valter and Caellach.
Eirika: No!
Innes: Two armies... They’re willing to send so many here and leave the capital defenseless?
L’Arachel: Why does everyone seem so distraught? It matters not who stands in our path. We shall smite them all with the power of righteousness!
Seth: Princess Eirika... It’s going to be very difficult for us to continue. One of Grado’s generals alone is more than a match for us. Compound that with the exhaustion of our troops, and I’m not sure we can–
Innes: Bah... With Jehanna Hall in flames, we’ve no place to hole up and dig in for a siege. We have to retreat. We have to win ourselves time for form a plan. Grado sent two generals... What could be happening in their capital? And what of Ephraim? Is he still alive?
Eirika: ...Brother...

/***EOF***/
@Intro 
Tirado: What a pleasant surprise. It’s Master Valter.
Valter: What’s the situation, Tirado? You have captured Ephraim, haven’t you?
Tirado: No. Prince Ephraim still fights in the lands north of Renvall.
Valter: And why is that? What has happened to all those mercenaries you hired?
Tirado: They’ve proven to be less then adequate. Ephraim’s clever. His band strikes quickly and then vanishes into the woods. We more than double his numbers, and yet he uses the terrain wisely to fight us. He has no army–just a small force of knights loyal to Renais. Prince Ephraim’s reputation as a superb strategist would seem to be well earned.
Valter: Hmm... How interesting. The lad’s beginning to whet my appetite. Tirado...Bring him to me as quickly as you can, will you?
Tirado: As you command. Just grant me an army, and I’ll bring him down swiftly.
Valter: What sort of plan do you have?
Tirado: Master, I am your loyal adjutant, and you are my general. For you, my lord, I have many plans ready and waiting.
Valter: Really? Well then, let me hear them.
Tirado: Very well. First, you and I will leave this fort and head north. Then, we will find Prince Ephraim in his leafy playpen.
Valter: But he’s not easily found, is he?
Tirado: Do not worry. At Prince Ephraim’s side is... a friend, shall we say. When the time is right, our friend will move on our behalf...
 
Ephraim: Forde, how are we on supplies and equipment?
Forde: It’s not looking good. Our weapons are in bad shape, and we’re running low on food. We can probably restock at a nearby village, but–
Ephraim: No, that’s not an option. We’re in enemy territory. I will not involve innocents if I can avoid it.
Forde: Yeah, I knew you’d say that. I mean, it’s because of stuff like that that we’ve stuck with you so far. But eventually, we do need to face reality. What are we going to do?
Kyle: Word of mouth has it that the invasion of Renais has progressed quite far. I’ve heard that the capital has fallen.
Ephraim: Hm...So soon... Still, my father is in the capital, and he won’t surrender easily. Forde, Kyle. Our mission here is to harry the troops, to distract their eye. Hopefully, we’ll be able to give my father and Eirika time to escape. Kyle, have you heard anything from Orson? I sent him ahead to scout.
Kyle: No word yet, and it’s about time he returned...
 
Orson: Reporting in, Prince Ephraim. I can confirm Grado presence at several points around our camp. Also, a large battalion of soldiers has been dispatched from Renvall. We shouldn’t tarry here any longer than necessary...
Ephraim: I see.
Forde: Seems as though we’ve certainly caught Grado’s eye this time. Should we retreat back to the capital, Prince Ephraim?
Ephraim: No. We press onward. We’re going to capture Renvall.
Forde: Wh-what?!?
 
Ephraim: So this is Renvall, is it? All right, let’s go.
Forde: Um...Are you...sure you’re quite sane, Prince Ephraim? We’ve an entire army after us, and you want to charge their stronghold?
Kyle: Forde! Watch your tongue! This is our prince you’re addressing!
Ephraim: Kyle, please, it’s all right. We’ve heard nothing from home, So what harm could a little reckless besieging cause?
Kyle: Prince Ephraim...
Ephraim: Don’t worry. I haven’t lost all sense of self-preservation. Renvall holds an important place in Grado’s national defense. If we can get the upper hand and take control of it, then Grado will waste many valuable soldiers trying to take it back I hope our attack proves useful to my father and Eirika.
Forde: I understand what you’re saying, but... can we do it with our current strength?
Ephraim: Every soldier in this area is trying to find us. The enemy has us vastly outnumbered. Attacking the castle is a ridiculous idea. If the enemy thinks the same... then we may have our opening.
Forde: You have a point. I’m sure Renvall won’t expect us to attack with these numbers. Either way, we can’t run forever. And we’re running out of supplies. What’ve we got to lose? Shall we get ready to go?
Ephraim: Yes. If we don’t move quickly, we may never get another chance. Trust me. I don’t pick fights I cannot win.
Kyle: Yes, sir!
 
Zonta: An attack? By Ephraim’s troops? To arms! Prince Ephraim’s circled around and brought the fight to us! If we capture the prince here, we can line our pockets with gold! Do you understand? We’ll be rich!
Ephraim: Orson.
Orson: Yes...
Ephraim: Your wounds still haven’t healed from that last battle, have they? Don’t push yourself. If we’re defeated, you must return to Frelia. Understood?
Orson: Understood...
Ephraim: Let’s go! Kyle! Forde!

@Boss 
Zonta: Do you truly think you can take us with those numbers? Imbecile! You’ll learn the error of your ways.
 
Zonta: L-lord Tirado...It can’t be... Were we...merely pawns?

@End 
Kyle: We’ve secured the entire castle. You were brilliant, Prince Ephraim! What a plan! What a battle!
Ephraim: I estimate at least half of the enemy troops are in the field. We took the castle, but we don’t have the manpower to hold it in a siege. There’s no point in lingering here. Let’s continue on to Grado Keep.
 
Forde: Prince Ephraim, things have taken a turn for the worse. I took a look around the castle perimeter... We’re surrounded.
Kyle: What?
Ephraim: Grado’s sent reinforcements? So quickly...?
Kyle: What should we do?
Ephraim: ...... We must escape!
 
Valter: So, you’ve captured Renvall, have you? And with such a small force! Impressive! You’ve earned your reputation. I must say, I quite admire your work. I take it you’re the leader of this pack–the misguided Prince Ephraim.
Ephraim: I am.
Valter: I’m General Valter, the Moonstone of Grado’s Imperial Army. Catching up to you has caused me no small amount of trouble. We’ve reduced your wretched home of Renais to ruin, and yet... you and your little band of bravos continue to be a thorn in our side. But that all ends here.
Ephraim: We’ll see...You claim you’ve taken the capital of Renais... Tell me, how did you know I would attack Renvall?
Valter: Ha ha... Patience. You’ll have your answer soon enough. Now, be good lads, and drop your weapons, will you?
Kyle: Prince Ephraim, let us attack!
Ephraim: ......
Valter: Listen to me, Ephraim. You’re a smart man. You know it’s futile to fight me. You cannot win. You cannot escape. Accept the reality of your situation, and surrender to me.
Ephraim: Surrender?
Valter: Heh heh heh... That’s right. If you do, I’ll let you live. I hold your life in the palm of my hand. Do not test my good humor. Now, come over here, bend your knee, and beg for your life. Show me how Renais dogs grovel.
Ephraim: I think not.
Valter: What?
Ephraim: You said your name was Valter, didn’t you? Well, I’m sorry, Valter, but I don’t have time to waste playing games with you. So, we’re going to knock you louts about a bit and then make our way out of here.
Valter: Fool... Have you gone mad? Do you truly believe you can fight your way past my wyvern knights?
Ephraim: Watch and see. I don’t pick fights I can’t win. Kyle, Forde. Are you ready?
Kyle: My life has been yours since the moment I took my chivalric vows.
Forde: It’s moments like these that keep me by your side, my prince.
Valter: What idiotic wretches you are... Prepare yourselves to be destroyed utterly!
Ephraim: We break to the east. GO!

/***EOF***/
@Opening 
In an age long past... evil flooded over the land. Creatures awash in the dark tide ran wild, pushing mankind to the brink of annihilation. In its despair, mankind appealed to the heavens, and from a blinding light came hope.

These five glorious treasures held the power to dispel evil. The hero Grado and his warriors used the Sacred Stones to combat evil's darkness. They defeated the Demon King and sealed his soul away within the stones. With the darkness imprisoned, peace returned to Magvel. But this peace would not last...

The continent of Magvel. For some 800 years, a quiet peace reigned in the absence of the terrible darkness. The Sacred Stones have been passed from generation to generation. Nations have been built around their power and their legacy. The kingdom of Renais, ruled by Fado, the peerless Warrior King. The kingdom of Frelia, ruled by Hayden, the venerable Sage King. The kingdom of Jehanna, ruled by Ismaire, Queen of the White Dunes. The theocracy of Rausten, ruled by Mansel, the Divine Emperor. The Grado Empire, ruled by Vigarde, the stalwart Silent Emperor. 

These five countries house the power of the Sacred Stones. They are joined by the emerging mercantile republic of Carcino. In these times of peace, tales of past conflict have drifted into legend, and memories of the ancient dark arts have all but evaporated. 

It is now the year 803... In an instant, the whole of Magvel is threatened by an unexpected atrocity. The Grado Empire, the largest of the Sacred Stone nations, has invaded the kingdom of Renais under orders from Emperor Vigarde. 

A longtime ally of Grado, Renais is caught off guard, unable to mount any resistance. Grado's forces move quickly, seizing one territory after another. Compounding King Fado's worries, his son, Prince Ephraim, has gone missing. Grado's momentum carries its armies to the gates of Castle Renais itself. Renais will fall... It is inevitable.

@Intro 
Soldier: Your Majesty, I bear bad news. The castle gate has been breached. Emperor Vigarde's forces are within the castle walls.
Fado: I understand.
Soldier: The garrison has fallen. We've lost contact with Prince Ephraim and can expect no aid from his men. Your Majesty, what are we to do?
Fado: ...What else can we do? Order your men to lay down their arms.
Eirika: Father...
Fado: Eirika. Are you wearing the bracelet I gave you?
Eirika: Yes, I have it right here.
Fado: Good. Seth.
Seth: Yes, Your Majesty?
Fado: Take Eirika and head for Frelia. King Hayden is an honorable man. I trust he will keep you safe.
Seth: Understood. And what of Your Majesty?
Fado: Me? I shall remain here. We have long held Grado among our dearest allies, yet now, they attack? I must know why. Am I somehow responsible for this? Have I erred in my leadership? Renais is mine to guide... How could I have failed her so?
Eirika: Father, you can't stay! You mustn't! If you remain behind, then so shall I!
Fado: Go now, Seth! Ride! Take her to safety!
Eirika: Father!
Seth: Forgive me, Your Highness.
Fado: Ephraim, Eirika... You must survive.

Franz: General Seth!
Seth: Franz, ride ahead and bring word of our coming to Frelia. A single rider has better odds of passing unseen by Grado's men. Convey to the throne all that has happened here and petition for reinforcements.
Franz: U-understood!
Seth: Princess Eirika, we must— Quickly! Behind me!
Valter: You there, with the girl. Tell me, would that be the wayward princess of Renais? Well, this must be my lucky day. You're a dead man. The wench goes with me.
Seth: Never!
Valter: I am Valter, the Moonstone, Grado's finest general! And you're just a corpse who does not know he is dead.
Seth: Ahhh... No!
Valter: Such terrible wounds, and still he holds to his duty? How entertaining. Fly away, little man. Fly away. Try to outrun death. More time to savor the hunt... and the kill.

Seth: Princess Eirika! This way! I can see no more of Grado's men. If we've made it this far, we've surely earned a moment's rest. Please forgive my grabbing you so...brusquely earlier.
Eirika: Don't be foolish, Seth. If it weren't for you, I would never have made it out of the castle. You are the reason I'm still alive. You have my gratitude. And whoever that man was, he was clearly after me... It's my fault that you received such a grave wound. Allow me to treat it, I--
Seth: Your Highness, I can't allow an injury like this to be an obstacle. We have more important matters to attend to. We must press on to Frelia. We must fulfill His Majesty's wishes.
Eirika: ...I wonder how my father fares alone in the castle. Do you think he's safe? And what of my brother on the Grado front? We've heard nothing from him for days.
Seth: King Fado and Prince Ephraim are both valiant and brave men. I doubt even the might of the Grado Empire can hold them in check. More important to me, Your Highness, is that you look to your own safety. How sad the two of them would be if something were to happen to you. We must reach Frelia to ensure the day of your happy reunion.
Eirika: Yes, of course. You're right. Until I'm reunited with my father and brother, I must not despair. Come, Seth. Let us go.
Seth: Once we cross that bridge, we will be in Frelia, near Border Mulan. Let us proceed, Princess Eirika.

@Battle 
Tutorial: Your training begins with movement. Place the square cursor on Eirika and press the A Button.
 
Tutorial: Press the A Button to select Eirika.
 
Tutorial: You can move anywhere within the blue area. Move the cursor to the flashing space beside Seth and press the A Button.
 
Tutorial: You’ll now move next to Seth. Go ahead and press the A Button.
Seth: Your highness, I won’t lie to you. This will not be an easy ride. Please, take this rapier. If something should happen to me, you must continue to Frelia, alone if need be.
Tutorial: You’ve received a rapier from Seth. All weapons have a durability rating. The rapier’s durability is 40. Once the rapier has been used 40 times, it will break. Pay close attention to how many uses your weapons have remaining.

O’Neill: You there! Renais Dogs! Where do you think you’re going?
Seth: Grado’s men.. Stand back, Princess Eirika.
Eirika: It’s all right, Seth. My brother has taught me something of swordplay. I will stand with you.
Tutorial: Red units are enemy units. After all of Eirika’s party has moved, the enemy units will move. Each side takes turns moving and then fighting until the battle ends.
 
Seth: Princess Eirika!
Eirika: I’m fine. His axe was slow, and I was quick. Now it’s my turn!
Tutorial: On this map you need to defeat O’Neill, the enemy leader, to win. The objective is displayed at the corner of the screen. Your objective changes from map to map, which may change your approach. Check your objective before deciding your strategy. Now, attack the enemy!
 
Tutorial: The cursor is now on Eirika. Press the A Button.
 
Tutorial: It’s time to attack the enemy. Place the cursor on Eirika and press the A Button.
 
Tutorial: Select Attack and press the A Button.
 
Tutorial: This is the combat information window. You can see the combatant’s HP and the amount of damage you will inflict. Eirika should do 7 points, and the enemy should do 9. You see the x2 next to Mt, right? This indicates that you will attack twice. Eirika is faster than her opponent, so she can strike twice in one turn. So, with 2 attacks of 7 points each, Eirika will do 14 points of damage. Now press the A Button to attack the enemy.
 
Seth: I’ll hold the rest of them here. Please, Princess–to Frelia!

Seth: All that's left is their leader...
O'Neill: What was that? Do you think you can take me, wretched lordling? Come! It's time you high-and-mighty knights learned to respect a true warrior!

Eirika: Seth! His wounds must be worse than he let on...
O'Neill: Time to die!
Eirika: Stop! Face me, if you have the steel!

Tutorial: Place the cursor on Eirika and press the A Button.
 
Tutorial: The cursor is now on Eirika. Press the A Button.
 
Tutorial: Move next to the enemy and press the A Button.
 
Tutorial: The combat information window is open again. Do you see Hit displayed below HP and Mt? Hit is the likelihood that you will land your blow. Eirika’s Hit is 94, so she has a 94 percent chance of hitting the enemy. Crit, short for Critical, also appears in this window. This is the chance an attack will be a lethal strike. Eirika’s Crit is 14, so she has a 14 percent chance of landing a killing blow. Critical attacks do 3 times the damage of a normal attack. Press the A Button to attack the enemy leader.

Tutorial: Eirika gained over 100 experience points and has leveled up. Gaining levels increases unit abilities and makes them stronger.

@Boss 
O'Neill: You will be the first to die!

O'Neill: What? How?

@End 
Seth: Princess, are you injured?
Eirika: What? Oh, no... I'm fine, Seth.
Seth: But you look so pale...
Eirika: I'm fine... Fine. ...This is war, isn't it? It's not at all like the games I used to play with my brother or Lyon. I never thought—I didn't know it would be this...savage. Are words useless? Is strength all that matters? It's so sad... Why would the Grado Empire do this? To what end would they start a war?
Seth: Princess...
Eirika: ...Don't worry, Seth. I won't give in to sorrow. Let's get moving. I'm not broken, and I won't stop until I see Renais restored. I won't stop until I'm reunited with my father and brother.
/***EOF***/
@Opening 
Eirika chooses to travel by sea to the theocracy of Rausten. Her search for a ship leads her to Port Kiris in Carcino. Carcino is a young nation ruled by a council of merchants, and it is an ally of Frelia. Carcino council leader Klimt, a staunch opponent of Grado’s imperialistic actions, has pledged Carcino’s support to Frelia in this conflict. Prince Innes also intends to pass through Carcino on his way to Jehanna. Eirika believes there is nothing to fear in Carcino, but she is wrong.

@Intro 
Vigarde: Frelia’s Sacred Stone has been destroyed. And yet you cannot locate the Stone of Renais. Glen. Valter. Find the children of Renais. Find them and take from them the bracelets that they wear. Glen, take Eirika. Valter, take Ephraim. Find them. Conquer them.
Glen: Yes, Your Majesty...
Valter: Ha ha... Eirika, eh? She’s a ripe little peach. And her brother, Ephraim... He’s better prey than I’d imagined. I can feel my blood rushing at the thought. This might be fun after all.
 
Vigarde: Caellach. Riev. Shatter the remaining Sacred Stones. Caellach, take Jehanna. Riev, take Rausten. Go. Crush the Sacred Stones they house.
Riev: Heh heh heh... As you will. I’ll begin making arrangements for Rausten’s downfall immediately...
Caellach: Bah! Why am I stuck with Jehanna? Accursed ill luck. I became a mercenary to escape that wretched place, and now I must go back?
 
Vigarde: Duessel. Go to Frelia. Take the Frelian army and punish Ephraim.
Vigarde: Selena. Remain in the capital. Soon, I will have new orders for you.
Selena: Yes, sire.
 
Tana: Eirika! Wait!
Eirika: Tana? What are you doing? You were supposed to remain in the palace. You left so abruptly, without any warning or farewell. You and Ephraim have only just arrived, and already you leave on another quest? Well, I’m your friend, Eirika, and I won’t let you go into danger without me.
Eirika: Does King Hayden know of this?
Tana: No. He’d just say I forbid you to go on this foolish errand,? like always. But I’m so worried about you.
Eirika: Thank you, Tana. I appreciate your concern, but King Hayden would–
Tana: You and Ephraim, my father and my brother... You’re all fighting together, fighting for a noble cause. I cannot be left out. I will not be left out. Please, Eirika.
Eirika: ...Oh... All right. I never could refuse you anything. Come on. Let’s go, Tana.
Tana: Thank you, Eirika!
 
Seth: Your Highness, we’ve reached Port Kiris. If we can find passage across the North Sea, we will reach Rausten in 10 days.
Eirika: It smells of the tides... This is a busy place, isn’t it?
Seth: It’s a trade center. Peoples of all nations pass through here. Do not become so enthralled with the sights and sounds that you forget your mission.
Eirika: I won’t. I’m a mercenary by the name of Erina. I’m traveling to Rausten to receive a commission.
Seth: Let us look for a ship then, Erina. The docks are this way.
Eirika: Hm?
Seth: Is something amiss?
Eirika: Seth, that woman over there? Is that...
 
L’Arachel: Oh, these dainty sugar pastries! They’re delightfully scrumptious! Flavorful without being overwhelming, refined without being banal...
Dozla: Gwah ha ha! Right you are, Lady L’Arachel!
Eirika: You look familiar...
L’Arachel: Oh! Aren’t you–
Eirika: We’ve met before, haven’t we? You arrived with your companions when we encountered those creatures... Your name is L’Arachel, is it not?
L’Arachel: A wonder and pleasure that we should meet again so soon! It is providence!
Rennac: Bad luck is the only thing the divine has ever provided you!
L’Arachel: Oh, and if you have not yet tried one, these pastries are also divine. Would you care for one?
Eirika: Uh, thank you... No, wait... That’s not why– We’re actually on our way to the Theocracy of Rausten. We’re rather in a rush and need to find passage on a ship...
L’Arachel: Oh, dear. I’m afraid you’ll find none to assist you. No ships are leaving port.
Eirika: Pardon?
L’Arachel: You see, I find myself heading home once more to my beloved Rausten as well! And actually, I’m quite well known with the powers-that-be here in Port Kiris. So I ordered them to ready the finest passenger vessel for me. But both merchants and passenger ships alike are too frightened to set sail. It seems a giant ghost ship has been sinking every ship it finds... Would that I could confront it, I could stop its foul villainy in a moment. Alas. It’s such a shame.
Eirika: Yes, yes... Uh... That is troublesome. Still, I must get to Rausten somehow.
L’Arachel: You needn’t worry too much. After all, if the sea is closed to you, simply follow the overland route!
Eirika: The overland route? I’ve heard that’s a terribly roundabout path to travel.
L’Arachel: Oh, it is, but don’t you see? The hardships of the road, they are truly blessings! They will toughen you and strengthen your resolve when you need to face great evil. For example, I have been tasked with a great trial in order to better me. I understand my path, O unknowable forces of providence! I, your faithful servant L’Arachel, shall overcome! With faith and divine strength!
Rennac: Now, listen, L’Arachel! You might be thrilled about going the long way, but–
L’Arachel: Come now, we’re leaving. Dozla? Rennac? Don’t fall behind!
Dozla: Gwah ha ha! Wait for us, Lady L’Arachel! Come on, Rennac! We run ’til we drop! The first one to collapse from exhaustion is the winner!
Rennac: Help... Why is this happening to me?
 
Eirika: ...Uh, Seth? Isn’t Rausten in the other direction? Aren’t they heading toward Frelia?
Seth: ...It’s nothing you need concern yourself with, milady. Our only concern now is to decide our next course of action. An overland journey would be very long. However, it seems that may be our only choice at the moment...
Eirika: I agree. Whatever shall we do...
 
Binks: ...You’re Eirika, the princess of Renais, ain’t ya?
Eirika: What?
Seth: Dastard! Away with you!
Binks: No need to get personal! You know, there’s a pretty price on your pretty head. Sorry, but I need that gold.

@Visit 
Man: Wh-what do you want? Gimme a break... Leave us out of this stupid war of yours! We don’t want anything to do with it! Or... are you just another victim, like the rest of us here? Well, regardless... Here. Take this, and go do something about all this fighting, will you?
 
Rennac: My, oh my... It’s about time they left. I’m finally done getting ordered about without getting paid. Huh? Oh, don’t mind me. Just talking to myself. Here, I want you to hold on to this for me. Don’t tell anyone. Oh, and don’t say a word about seeing me to Lady L’Arachel, all right? Deal?

@Battle 
Soldier: Attention! Carcino’s mercenaries will arrest the princess of Renais shortly. Our duty here is nearly ended, and I expect no further hostilities. If you must fight, however, remember that the whole empire fights with you!
Amelia: Um, Commander? What should I do?
Soldier: Who are you?
Amelia: Sir! I’m Amelia of Silva, sir! I’m new. I was only assigned to your command today. I wanted to fight for the empire!
Soldier: I don’t need your life story, fool! Recruits are in front! Grab a lance and move!
Amelia: Sir, yes sir! This lance... Stab the enemy. I’m not afraid... I’m a citizen of Grado. It’s my duty to fight. And I’ll fight my best!

@Recruit-Talk 
%Franz,Amelia
Franz: Oh, who are you?
Amelia: What? What?
Franz: Are you one of the locals? This is a dangerous spot. You should hide. Here, come with me.
Amelia: But... But I’m...
Franz: I’m Franz, a Knight of Renais. What’s your name? What are you doing here?
Amelia: I-I’m Amelia. I’m... Actually, I’m a Grado soldier. I’m supposed to be fighting you.
Franz: Really? So, uh, you’re my enemy?
Amelia: ...I guess... Are you... Are you going to make me your prisoner?!
Franz: No! No, I wouldn’t do that. But...this is a problem.
Amelia: What should we do?
Franz: First of all, you must listen to me and do as I say. We’ll talk to Princess Eirika later.
Amelia: What? NO! My commander told me Eirika’s a cruel and merciless fiend who–
Franz: Oh, that’s utter nonsense. I’ve never heard the princess utter an unkind word to anyone. I understand why you’re frightened. You think we’re the enemy. But if you’d only trust me... Will you come with me?
Amelia: Mm... Well, all right. I’ll trust you, Franz.
 
%Eirika,Amelia
Eirika: Who are you?
Amelia: What? What?
Eirika: Are you from around here? You should find someplace to hide. These men are after me. It’s not safe.
Amelia: But... But I’m...
Eirika: Yes?
Amelia: I’m a Grado soldier. I’m here to stop the princess of Renais...
Eirika: Huh? You’re with Grado?
Amelia: And you’re Princess Eirika? But the commander said Eirika’s a cruel and merciless fiend...
Eirika: What? No, I’m... ...I don’t know what Grado’s officers have been telling you, but... Our two countries are at war, so I suppose they can say what they want.
Amelia: ...Mistress Eirika... I, uh, I surrender. I won’t fight you.
Eirika: Huh?
Amelia: I became a soldier because I admired General Duessel’s sense of honor. But the generals have been very opposed to this war from the beginning... And now I see you, and you look so sad about all of this. I don’t know what’s right anymore. I’m just a soldier, but I want to decide for myself. I want to understand the truth myself, to see it with my own eyes.
Eirika: ...I see. So...does this mean you’re coming with us? I suppose I should ask your name then.
Amelia: Amelia. Amelia of Silva.

@Boss 
Binks: Blast! This ain’t right! These guys are too tough... 5,000 gold ain’t nearly enough for this!
 
Binks: Th-that stinkin’ Pablo... He...lied to me...

@End 
Seth: Your Highness, are you well?
Eirika: Yes, I believe so... Who are these men? They don’t appear to be Grado Imperial troops.
Seth: Judging by their crude swordplay, I’d say they’re mercenaries. We can expect more of them in the area, too, I think. Wait here.
 
Mercenary: W-wait! I give up! I don’t want to fight anymore! We were just doing a job.
Seth: Who hired you?
Mercenary: I may be nothing but a hired blade, but I have my honor. I won’t say a word.
Seth: I admire your professionalism. I guess we have no use for you.
Mercenary: No, wait! I’ll talk! Carcino! It was Pablo of the Carcino Council of Elders!
Seth: Councilman Pablo?
Eirika: That doesn’t make sense! Carcino and Frelia are allies. Why would they target me?
Mercenary: I don’t know... Could be they’ve decided Grado’s going to win. They want to be on the winning side. Some of the others opposed Pablo, but I heard he had ’em all silenced but quick. That’s all I know, I swear it.
Seth: I believe you. Go.
 
Seth: We were careless. We should have seen this coming. Carcino’s a young and ambitious nation ruled by power-hungry merchants. And Grado grows more powerful with every passing day. So it’s no surprise Carcino’s merchant lords would throw in with Grado now.
Eirika: Wait! Prince Innes... Prince Innes was to pass through Carcino on his way to Jehanna... If Carcino has betrayed us, then he ran headlong into enemy territory...
 
Messenger: Princess Eirika! I bring dire tidings!
Eirika: I know you... You were a messenger riding with Prince Innes.
Messenger: Yes, and I have news of him. Prince Innes is in danger! Carcino’s merchant army struck and cut through half our men. The prince is trapped in a siege. He has no means of escape, and–
Eirika: No more! I understand. Return to Frelia and deliver your message!
Messenger: What of Prince Innes?
Eirika: Leave him to us. The prince’s troubles should burden you no more. We will see him to safety.
 
Rennac: ...Hey, you. Have Lady L’Arachel and her man, Sir Stubble-chin, gone yet?
Eirika: Aren’t you– Yes, they no longer appear to be in the city.
Rennac: Whew... I’m finally free! No more getting bossed around by that witless ninny! Thanks. I owe you one. Take this. Now that I’m free again. I think I’m just gonna wander about for a while.
Eirika: ...What a strange relationship they have.
Seth: Lady Eirika, I think we ought to be leaving soon.
Eirika: Yes. We must hurry to Prince Innes’s side!

/***EOF***/
@Opening 
A former lance instructor to Ephraim, Grado's General Duessel often came to Renais as an emissary of his empire. Despite their stations, the two men share similar dispositions and a warm relationship. Why has Grado started this war? What is the miasma of evil emanating from the country? Ephraim believes that Duessel can answer these questions. It is this belief that propels Ephraim forward into Grado territory.

@Intro 
Messenger: Please wait, Prince Ephraim. I have a message from Frelia. There’s been an uprising in Carcino. Pablo is leading a force of renegade Grado supporters in rebellion.
Ephraim: In Carcino... Any word of Eirika? Is my sister safe?”
Messenger: The last word we received had Princess Eirika heading to assist Prince Innes. We’ve not heard from her since.”
Ephraim: ...Blast. I sent Eirika to Rausten thinking it would be the safest mission. If I could, I’d pull out of here now and go look for her but...”
Seth: Prince Ephraim.
Ephraim: ...I know, I know. I mustn’t let my emotions dictate my actions. If Carcino has allied itself with Grado, then defeating Grado is out best bet. We proceed as planned. Tell them that.
Seth: Understood.
Ephraim: Be careful, Eirika.

Ephraim: ...What?! Was that an earthquake? I think it’s passed.
Seth: Prince Ephraim.”
Ephraim: I’m fine. There’s nothing to worry about. I was surprised, that’s all. You’re not shaken in the slightest, are you?
Seth: Actually, it surprised me as well. I’ve heard that tremors such as those were commonplace in Grado. Apparently, they are usually weak and cause little, if any, damage.
Ephraim: Now that you mention it, I remember a while back, when I was first in Grado. Eirika and I were startled by a tremor just like that one. Lyon said he had grown used to them, and he just laughed.
Seth: ......
Ephraim: We don’t have any time to tend to injuries just now. We must press forward. We must see to the capital.

Duessel: I do not understand... Why this course of action? What is the emperor thinking...
Selena: General Duessel.
Duessel: ...Is that you, Selena? Are you to be assisting me in this...duty?
Selena: Yes... Frelia’s army will be coming soon from the north. We’re just waiting for the order to engage them.
Duessel: Hm... Prince Ephraim leads the enemy forces, doesn’t he?
Selena: That is correct. Prince Ephraim of Renais.
Duessel: Bah...
Selena: Renais is our enemy. General, please give the order to attack.
Duessel: No. Order all units to hold. Do not initiate the attack. I want to speak with Ephraim first.
Selena: ...... So it’s true. You plan to betray the empire and ally yourself with the enemy.
Duessel: What?!
Selena: General Duessel, you stand accused of treason of the highest order. Lay down your weapons, and follow my commands. If you fail to do so, if you resist in any way, I will execute you on the spot.
Duessel: This is nonsense! Who is behind this madness!
Selena: These are His Majesty’s orders. The emperor has anticipated your treachery. Prepare yourself.
Duessel: Impossible... His Majesty?

Selena: Cormag, you and I will bring that traitor down. Go around that fort to the southeast and drive into them from the sea.
Cormag: We’re fighting General Duessel? But he’s one of the cornerstones of the empire. How could– He’s been like a father to you and to my brother. Do you truly mean to kill him?
Selena: ...... If that is what my emperor commands, then yes. Without hesitation. Cormag, if you are a true knight of Grado, you will do the same.
Cormag: ......


Seth: Prince Ephraim, the Imperial Grado army is before us.
Ephraim: I know, but something’s odd. They’re chasing someone down. Is that a deserter? Wait! That’s... Duessel?
Seth: Prince Ephraim, your orders.
Ephraim: We rescue Duessel! Ride!!!

@Battle 
Valter: What’s this? They’ve only just begun? What a disappointment. I so wanted to witness the comedy of two generals hacking away at each other.
Selena: Valter... What do you want?
Valter: Ah, Selena. You’re to return to the capital immediately. Duessel is no longer your concern. His Majesty has declared you untrustworthy. I’ve been sent here to relieve you of command.
Selena: What?
Valter: You’ve proven yourself incapable of dealing with a single old man... I tell you, having to clean up your mess makes things difficult for me, Selena. Now then, Beran.
Beran: Yes, sir.
Valter: I’m leaving. I can’t leave poor Eirika sad and lonely in Carcino. You’re in command here for the duration of this conflict.
Beran: I’ll take care of things.
Selena: What do you think you’re doing?! I am here at His Majesty’s bidding, and...
Valter: Did you not hear me? His Majesty’s bidding has CHANGED. You, Selena, are not to be trusted. These are His Majesty’s words. You share the same sentiments as Duessel. You could turn traitor, just as he has. You should feel honored. He could have ordered me to kill you where you stand.
Selena: Th-that’s absurd! His Majesty, he... He knows I am trustworthy.
Valter: Then return to the capital and sort it out. Go and ask your beloved master whether I speak the truth.
Selena: I...
Valter: What are you going to do, Selena?
Selena: I will return to the capital. I know better than to trust your word. I will speak with the emperor myself.

Valter: Heh heh... Stupid woman. If Grado wins too easily, there’ll be no more bloodshed. We must do what we can to extend the fun... I believe it’s time for me to return to my darling Eirika. It wouldn’t do for Glen to arrive before me, would it? Take care of things here before I return to you. Understood?
Beran: Of course.


Cormag: Tell me, Brother, what should I do?

@Visit 
Girl: Do you know what I’m going to be when I get older? I’m going to be a splendid knight, just like General Selena. They call General Selena the Fluorspar, you know? She’s really beautiful and really, really strong.

Man: A strange man passed through here sometime back. He said something about looking for a girl with indigo hair... I asked if she was his girl, but he said she wasn’t. I hope he’s found her by now.

Old man: This area of the ocean is often blanketed in a thick fog. I toiled under it myself for many hard years when I was still sailing. We always made sure we had torches and the like ready... Oh, yes... And there’s this. This torch staff shines just as bright as any normal torch. Of course, if nobody you know can use it, it’s just so much extra baggage. Will you take it? Oh, go ahead. I’m planning on resting my old bones here for good. My sailing days are done.

Marisa: ...No good.
Person sent: What?
Marisa: ...... This.
Person sent: Huh?
Marisa: I found it. I can’t use it yet. Good-bye.
Person sent: Uh...

@Battle 
Soldier: Commander Cormag!
Cormag: I know what I must do. I’m a sworn knight of Grado, and I have a duty to fulfill. Let’s start by putting an end to that Frelian army. Move out!

@Recruit-Talk 
%Ephraim,Duessel
Ephraim: Duessel!
Duessel: Is that you, Prince Ephraim?
Ephraim: Why were those Grado men after you? What’s going on? Wait, we can talk later. Let’s get you to safety first. Come with us, Duessel.
Duessel: ......
Ephraim: Duessel!
Duessel: I am General Duessel, the Obsidian, of the Imperial Three... This name and my service to His Majesty have been my life’s blood. As of this moment it is all gone. I’ve no reason to continue...
Ephraim: Duessel... Enough of this rubbish! You are my mentor! I will not let you die!
Duessel: ...Prince Ephraim.
Ephraim: I know about the emperor’s madness. How will your death serve Grado? Who will it help? What of your country? Its people? Its future!?
Duessel: ......
Ephraim: You will live, Duessel. As a traitor... In disgrace... I know that for a man such as you this is more agonizing than death. But you will live nonetheless. You will live for something more important.
Duessel: ...... I understand. This old fool’s life is yours.

%Tana,Cormag
Tana: Wait. Please stop fighting. I’m sure we can reach an agreement if we just talk.
Cormag: You are...?
Tana: My name is Tana. You’re from Grado, aren’t you? Why are you fighting against General Duessel?
Cormag: That’s none of your–
Tana: Do you hate him?
Cormag: ...Do I hate him? This isn’t some petty schoolyard squabble, girl. I’m a soldier of the empire, and I have my orders. I’ve been sent to punish a traitor, and that’s what I aim to do.
Tana: Are you telling me that General Duessel’s a traitor? Don’t you know him? Do you think that’s really true?
Cormag: What I think isn’t at question. Faith does not dictate my actions. I have my orders.
Tana: Ephraim trusts your General Duessel. He’s given him the benefit of the doubt. Have you chosen not to believe the reasons for his actions?
Cormag: Get out of my way! I’ll waste no more time with this duel of words!
Tana: Wait! Please... Protect General Duessel. It would be tragic if he died before his motives became clear.
Cormag: ... Move, please. If you won’t get out of the way, I’ll have to move you by force.
Tana: Very well. If you must. But in exchange, I’m asking you to believe General Duessel.
Cormag: ...... ...You’re an odd bird. To think I’d lose a fight not to a man’s sword but to a woman’s words...
Tana: What?
Cormag: You will. I will protect General Duessel. But I plan on sorting this whole mess out with the general himself.
Tana: Do you mean that?
Cormag: I don’t know if this is the right thing to do or not. But I think this is what my brother would have done.

%Duessel,Cormag
Duessel: Is that you, Cormag?
Cormag: Sir Duessel... You have abandoned your country and your lord. I must take your life.
Duessel: I know. I’m ready now. I have no duty anymore. But you, Cormag. You’re a soldier of the empire. Follow your orders and fulfill your mission. I’m ready.
Cormag: ......
Duessel: Cormag!
Cormag: To be honesty, I’m confused. Must you truly die? Is your crime really deserving of death? I know my brother could have settled this, but... I’ve come here to stop you, and yet I find that I cannot.
Duessel: ......
Cormag: You see, I couldn’t believe you would ever truly turn traitor. And now I stand here, looking at you, Duessel of the Imperial Three. And you do not have the eyes of a traitor.
Duessel: ......
Cormag: No. I cannot turn my lance on you, the empire’s faithful son. General Duessel... Until this matter is sorted, you travel under my protection.
Duessel: Cormag... Forgive me...

@Boss 
Beran: Prince Ephraim of Renais... The Obsidian Duessel... Two incredible trophies. Who could ask for more?

@End 
Beran: Grrr... They’re held on for too long. If this continues, General Valter will have me– ...Prepare a ship. We must flee. Quickly!
Soldier: B-but General Valter... He’ll be so angry...
Beran: We’re doomed either way. General Valter will never forgive our failure here... And if we stay, we’ll be devoured like those other fools... Our best bet is to give up and escape with our lives.

Soldier: Commander Beran! Wait!

Seth: Prince Ephraim. The remaining enemy troops have fled.
Ephraim: I see. And what of Duessel? Is he unharmed?
Seth: Yes. This way.

Duessel: Prince Ephraim... You’ve grown to be quite the impressive commander. I remember what a stubborn young lad you were when I taught you.
Ephraim: Any skill I have, I owe to you, Duessel. I’m curious, why are you being pursued by your own troops?
Duessel: ......
Ephraim: Speak to me, Duessel. I want to put an end to this war. I’m sure you feel the same way.
Duessel: ...... ...As you know, the emperor was once a man of compassion. He loathed war, and he worked to build peace across all nations. Then...one day that all changed.
Ephraim: ...... But why? Why did he change? What happened?
Duessel: I wish I knew. But if you’re looking for a likely cause, I have one. This all seems to have begun when Prince Lyon and the mages created a strange gemstone they referred to as the Dark Stone.
Ephraim: The Dark Stone?
Duessel: That’s what the clerics and the prince called it, at any rate Now, I’m just a soldier. I don’t know anything about these magic things. But they said the Dark Stone is more powerful even than the Sacred Stones.
Ephraim: And the Sacred Stones had the power to defeat the Demon King. If the Dark Stone is stronger than they are...
Myrrh: ...Ephraim.
Ephraim: What is it, Myrrh?
Myrrh: The wave of evil I felt surging from the capital... It hungers... It consumes. It envelops and transforms. This power can tarnish the purest of souls with its corruption.
Ephraim: Are you saying this Dark Stone is responsible for the change in Vigarde? The timing fits, doesn’t it? The stone is created, and then– Duessel, where is the Dark Stone now?
Duessel: It’s in the capital, with Prince Lyon. He’s been carrying it with him ever since the day it was created.
Ephraim: Understood. Duessel, I’m going to the capital. I must talk to Lyon. Maybe we can restore the emperor together.
Duessel: ...I’m going with you.
Ephraim: But we’ll be fighting Grado’s army–your own men.
Duessel: I appreciate your concern, but I’ve already been branded a traitor. Prince Ephraim, if you mean to save my lord the emperor... If you hope to restore him to his former self... then I will pledge my loyalty to you until your cause is won.

Soldier: General Duessel!
Duessel: Men, I owe each of you an apology. You’ve served me well, and I have betrayed you.
Soldier: You speak nonsense, General! We are your men, no matter what happens! If you must leave Grado to fight with Frelia’s men, then our place is at your side. Your road is our road!
Duessel: My brave men... Sniff... Bah, I’m getting old. I’m a sentimental old fool.
Soldier: We ask to be allowed to join the Frelian army. Prince Ephraim has many soldiers. He doesn’t need us with him. Please, send us older soldiers off to fight with Frelia. And may the gods of war smile upon you, General Duessel.


Seth: Prince Ephraim, we must now take to the seas. The Frelian army is readying a ship for us now. We have some time to rest until it’s ready to set sail.
Ephraim: Right. We’ll take a break, then. Tell the men. The road ahead is bound or be a rough one.

L’Arachel: Well, hello there! Tell me, are you all waiting to board a ship?
Ephraim: Er, yes, we are...
L’Arachel: I recommend that you abandon your plans, my friends. The locals are too frightened to set sail upon these seas.
Ephraim: Is there a storm coming in?
L’Arachel: No, no storm–demons. Some sort of phantom ship commands these seas now.
Ephraim: A phantom ship?
L’Arachel: Yes. But you needn’t worry for long, my friends. I plan on purging the seas of that pesky ghost ship.
Rennac: Oh, no... Here we go again.
Dozla: Gwah ha ha! Well said, Princess L’Arachel!
L’Arachel: I, L’Arachel, am destined to become the protector of the seas! Fare thee well, strangers. Come, Dozla, we must find a ship.
Dozla: Gwah ha ha! Sounds fun! Come on, Rennac!
Rennac: Honestly, L’Arachel, do you even think before you set these plans? Oh, please... Someone end my misery!
Ephraim: ...What was all that about?

Seth: Prince Ephraim, our ship has arrived. Let us prepare to board. ...Something troubling you?
Ephraim: No... It’s nothing. All right. Here we go!
/***EOF***/
@Opening 
Rumors say that Ephraim has been defeated and taken prisoner. Now Eirika must find a way to rescue her brother from beneath enemy eyes. Eirika’s company rushes towards Castle Renvall, where Ephraim is being held. Surrounded by lakes, Renvall is a natural fortress, all but unassailable. A lone bridge, held by the enemy, is its only entrance. Eirika has only one choice. Eirika decides to confront Grado’s soldiers head on...

@Intro 
Eirika: My brother is somewhere inside that castle...
Seth: Renvall is surrounded by lakes. The only entrance is the bridge to the main gate, and it’s well guarded. Castle Renvall is a natural stronghold, easy to defend and difficult to assault. We must plan our attack carefully.
Eirika: I agree...
Franz: Princess Eirika! Please allow me to fight beside you. My elder brother, Forde, is in there with Prince Ephraim, Sir Kyle, Sir Orson... Let me help you set them free!
Gilliam: There is nothing to discuss. We will fight.
Moulder: The hour of your reunion is not far off now.
Vanessa: I am yours to command, Your Highness.
Ross: We’re with you all the way! Right, Dad?
Garcia: Don’t work yourself into a lather, Ross. In the heat of battle, a good warrior remains calm where lesser men do not.
Colm: You need anything stolen, I’m your man. ‘Course, my blade’s no joke either.
Neimi: I’m sure I can help you if you’ll let me... I’ll keep you safe.
Lute: You can’t possibly consider fighting without my genius at your side!
Artur: I have yet to repay you for helping me fight those abominations. Please, let me stand by your side a while longer.
Joshua: This has trouble written all over it. Bet you it’s all a trap... Ah, well... My luck’s gotta turn around sometime, right?
Natasha: May the sacred light surround us and protect us all.
Seth: Well, Princess, let us prepare for battle.
Eirika: ...Brother, I’m on my way. Let’s go!

@Battle 
Murray: We’re under attack! Rouse yourselves! General Valter’s adjutant, Lord Tirado, has charged us with defending the castle! Show them the might of Murray’s Brigade! Don’t let anyone near the castle!

@Visit 
Young man: Tirado’s the new master of Castle Renvall. He’s supposed to be an adjutant to General Valter of Grado. Who knows, though... Rumors say he’s been plotting behind Valter’s back. You should watch where you step.
 
Old lady: Prince Ephraim? Well, gracious me... I haven’t heard anything about him. But now that you mention it, there was a big commotion a few days back. I guess the soldiers were chasing somebody, but... Well, I was so tired, I fell asleep and missed the whole thing.

@Boss 
Murray: Our ballistae have failed? How could this be? Grrr... I guess it’s up to me!
 
Murray: Lord Tirado...

@End 
Eirika: My brother is somewhere in this castle... Seth, we must go inside!
Seth: Hold, Lady Eirika. Look, in the shadows–a figure...
Eirika: Ah! An enemy soldier!
 
Eirika: Princess Eirika And... is that you, Seth?
Seth: Sir Orson... Why are you here? You should be with Prince Ephraim.
Eirika: Are you all right, Orson? If you’re here, my brother must be here as well, right?
Orson: Yes... Prince Ephraim and I were broth captured by Grado forces and held here as prisoners. I just managed to escape my cell... A chance to escape– It’s what I had prayed for...
Eirika: Orson... are you well? Your face is so pale. Grado’s men, don’t tell me they’ve–
Orson: No... it’s nothing. But Lord Ephraim... I cannot say whether he’s still unharmed.
Eirika: What!? Where is he? Where is my brother?
Orson: If he lives still, he will be in one of the deeper cells, where I was held. Head down this corridor to the dungeons. Quickly, before reinforcements arrive.
Eirika: Thank you...
Seth: .......

/***EOF***/
@Intro 
^start
Lyon: When tomorrow comes... you have to go home, don’t you...
Eirika: Yes... Thank you for everything, Lyon. I’ll never forget the time I spent here.
Lyon: Do you think we’ll see each other again...
Eirika: Yes, of course. My brother and you and me. We are friends, after all. Aren’t we...
Lyon: Eirika... Yep, you’re right. I hope your study of the Sacred Stones is fruitful. I know you’ll use the wisdom you glean to make your people happy.
Lyon: Thank you, Eirika. You know, you’re the only reason I was able to save that girl. There were times when I wanted to give up, to admit failure. But you were always there. You were always encouraging me to succeed. That’s what kept me going. I just thought of you.
Eirika: Lyon...
Lyon: Eirika... I...I’ve always... I’m sorry... Forget what I was saying. I could never be like Ephraim...
Eirika: Lyon, what do you–
Lyon: I guess this is it, Eirika. Hope to see you again someday. I’m going to focus on my work and do my best until that day. My research will progress, and my discoveries will benefit us all. One day, I will be a prince worthy of you, and I will see you again.

Ephraim: Don't make that face. We'll see each other again. All three of us--you, me, and Eirika.
Lyon: Yeah... I know. But when we get older, when we each take the reigns of our nations, we probably won't meet again... Not like this, I mean. Not as friends.
Ephraim: What's that got to do with anything? Kings are humans, too. Emperors need not be friendless, you know.
Lyon: I suppose you're right. You have a knack for cutting to the heart of things. But becoming a king or an emperor is not something you can take lightly. I really don't think we'll be the same people we are right now... What if Renais or Grado went to war? What if we were forced to fight?
Ephraim: Don't be ridiculous. That would never happen.
Lyon: If... If it did... We'd still be friends, wouldn't we?
Ephraim: Even if that happens, yes. We're friends forever. Nothing can change that. You'll see.
Lyon: Hm... All right, Ephraim. Then I will see you again.
^end

^start 
Eirika: Lyon!
Lyon: ... Eirika...
Eirika: Lyon... It is you, isn’t it, Lyon...!
Lyon: Yes... But I’m... I’m almost completely gone. Before I’m lost entirely, I want to apologize. I’m sorry, Eirika. This is all my fault. I was too weak...
Eirika: You’re not to blame, Lyon. It was the Demon King. He was controlling you...
Lyon: No, that’s not true, Eirika. When the Demon King reached into me from inside the Dark Stone...When he whispered he would see all my dreams and desires made true...I...I did not reject him. In the shadows of my heart, he saw jealousy...vanity...It was my weakness that put these emotions there, allowed them to thrive.
Eirika: Everyone has weaknesses, Lyon. You’re not the only one. I do. I’m sure my brother does...Don’t hate yourself for having these feelings, please.
Lyon: Thank you, Eirika. You were always...so kind. The Demon King will claim my flesh as a vessel for his resurrection. Before that can happen...I want you to kill me. I’m sorry, Eirika. I’m already-
Eirika: .....
Lyon: Oh, please...Are you done turning your failings into some sad epic of personal tragedy... It’s time we started then. I have a ritual to complete...and some nuisances to kill.
Eirika: Shut your mouth. I won’t allow you to desecrate Lyon’s body any further. You will not return to this world. I will stop you myself if I must.
Lyon: Ah, is that so... And do you honestly think yourself capable, wench... You once prayed for this fool’s salvation. Can you bring yourself to kill him...
Eirika: I can and I will. I made a promise to Lyon, and I intend to honor it.

Ephraim: Lyon.
Lyon: You came after all, Ephraim. I’m glad.
Ephraim: Lyon. Is this... Is this my fault? Am I responsible for how much you’ve changed? I haven’t seen you for two years now... Have you..hated me that entire time?
Lyon: No, Ephraim. I was never dishonest. I liked you both. I still do. But I was envious of you, too. That’s why I...desired this. You may not believe me when I tell you this, but... Even now, after all this, I still consider you a friend.
Ephraim: Lyon... You know that I do, too. I spoke the truth to you... I truly thought that we would always be friends. That’s why I... I have to stop you.
Lyon: Of course. I know... You are Ephraim, after all. You could do no less, my friend. Well, come then, Ephraim. Try and stop me. I will defeat you, and then I will save the people of Grado. No one... No one will stand in my way.
^end

@Boss 
Lyon: Come, and face your death! I’m waiting, you miserable fool. Your corpse will make a perfect offering in my resurrection.

Lyon: I am the Demon King... I know nothing of human frailty. I am supreme...

Lyon: Where... Where did I go wrong...

@Battle 
Lyon: I guess that proves it. You’re too strong, Ephraim... I’ve always... admired...
Ephraim: Lyon!
Lyon: You know, Ephraim... I always wanted to be you. I wanted to be strong and handsome... With Eirika always at my side... That’s what I wanted to be. I had... I had nothing...
Ephraim: Don’t be ridiculous, Lyon. Who was it that taught me history? Who covered for me when I stumbled? Didn’t you see how I looked up to you? I admired your compassion, your wisdom, your thoughtfulness....
Lyon: Oh, yeah... That seems so long ago... I did keep you out of trouble, didn’t I? Thanks for remembering. See? You’re thoughtful, too...
Ephraim: Lyon... Wait! Don’t close your eyes! I’m going to save you! I’ll find a way! I...
Lyon: No, don’t... Thanks, anyway. It was all my fault... Don’t look so sad. C’mon, Ephraim, smile. Like you used to...

Ephraim: ...Lyon...

Ephraim: What?! This...
Eirika: Brother! Lyon’s body! It’s...
Demon King: ...The time has come... ...My resurrection is at hand...

Demon King: Heh heh...heh heh heh... Well done, Lyon. The sacrifice of your flesh and the sum of your efforts... They were all for naught. Grado’s disaster cannot be averted. My resurrection is at hand. All this time, you imagined yourself in possession of your own free will, but it was I who planted the seed from which your ambitions grew. My deceit made you my puppet, and oh, how you danced at the end of my strings. You could never have been saved. It’s a shame, isn’t it, Lyon? And now I... I am reborn.

Ephraim: Demon King! You are responsible for all the misery we’ve seen! Lyon... My friend... You’re the one...
Eirika: Brother... This power... It’s different.
Ephraim: I know. This power is greater than anything we’ve ever faced.... But none of that matters. I’ve learned so much... My lance is stronger than ever. That thing the deceived and murdered my friend... No matter what happens, I’m going to destroy it!

Ephraim: L’Arachel! It’s time to use it. Prepare the last Sacred Stone! We have to use its power on that beast, like in the legends!
L’Arachel: You must listen to me, Ephraim. The stories are true: the stone does hold the power to stop the Demon King. However, the source of its power is human will, the desire for peace within our hearts.
Ephraim: In our hearts...
L’Arachel: Yes, that’s right. We need not pray for the Sacred Stone to aid us now. No, we need only focus ourselves and concentrate on a better future.
Ephraim: I understand. Everyone! Listen to me! This is the final battle. If we can defeat this thing, it’s over. We face the king of demons, the monster that once ruled all Magvel. He’s more powerful than any one of us here. But we have something that beast will never have. We have community, friendship, love... We have all the virtues of humanity. That is our weapon. That is our strength.

Lyon: .....
Eirika: Lyon!
Ephraim: Be careful, Eirika!
Eirika: It’s all right. He’s Lyon. Lyon...
Lyon: Ei...Eirika...Is...that you...
Eirika: Yes, Lyon. It’s me.
Lyon: Eirika...You stopped me, didn’t you... I’m glad...
Eirika: Lyon...Lyon...
Lyon: Listen...Eirika... I never had the courage to tell you, but...I’ve always loved you...

Eirika: Lyon...
Ephraim: .....

Ephraim: What...! This...
Eirika: Brother! Lyon’s body! It’s...
Demon King: The time has come... My resurrection is at hand...

Demon King: Now, humans...Lament your fate. Weep for the dead. Despair for the living. Wail and tremble in grief. Grovel in awe and fear. I am returned.

Eirika: Is...is that...the... Demon King...
Ephraim: Eirika.
Eirika: Brother...
Ephraim: Don’t be afraid, Eirika. I’m here. Our friends are here. We have the Sacred Stone, and we have each other. We will not lose. We will defeat him.
Eirika: You’re right, Brother!

Eirika: L’Arachel! It’s time. We have to use the final Sacred Stone. We must use its power against the Demon King, as in the stories of old!
L’Arachel: You must listen to me, Eirika. The stories are true; the stone does hold the power to stop the Demon King. However, the source of its power is human will, the desire for peace within our hearts.
Eirika: In our hearts...
L’Arachel: Yes, that’s right. We need not pray for the Sacred Stones to aid us now. No, we need only focus ourselves and concentrate on a better future.
Eirika: I understand, L’Arachel. Listen, everyone. I can never repay you for all you’ve done so far. Now, please, one last time...Lend me your strength. To defeat the Demon King! To restore peace to our lands! To take the peace we all dream of and make it real!

Eirika: Let’s finish this.

Seth: My only wish is to serve and protect the two of you...

Franz: There must be something that I can do!

Gilliam: We can’t let our guard down.

Vanessa: Please, let everyone come through this unscathed...

Moulder: Hm. I wonder if we can reenact the legend.

Ross: Watch with pride, Father! I’ll show you who’s the strongest!

Garcia: This may be my last battle. I’ll hold nothing back.

Neimi: I’m starting to wonder if I really should be here...

Colm: Fighting’s all well and good, but where’s all the treasure?

Artur: That’s the king of all demons... What a ferocious sight he is.

Lute: Oh, that’s the Demon King, isn’t it? Yes, I’ve read all about him.

Natasha: ...Prince Lyon.

Joshua: So, what’s Lady Luck have in store for me today?

Ephraim: Is everybody ready? We’re going to win.

Forde: We’ve got to do what we can, right?

Kyle: We’re with you all the way, Prince Ephraim!

Tana: There’s nothing to fear. I’ll protect everyone!

Amelia: Gotta d-do my best. Here goes!

Innes: Bah... I am in NO way inferior to this so-called Demon King.

Gerik: Never stop fighting. Never...

Tethys: Don’t tense up! You’ll fight better if you’re relaxed.

Marisa: My blade will cut deep.

L’Arachel: I, L’Arachel, strike in the name of righteousness, order, and Rausten!

Dozla: Gwah ha ha! Same goes for me!

Saleh: Hm... Can my magic prevail?

Ewan: I’ll show you all what my magic can do.

Cormag: Defeat the foe. Nothing else matters.

Rennac: Come on... You can’t be serious!

Duessel: We must be steel blades with which to pierce the enemy.

Knoll: That’s the heart of the darkness I’ve studied? It can’t be...

Myrrh: I’ll do what I can.

Syrene: I will show you honour and valour of the Frelian Pegasus Knights.

Demon King: Gaa...grrr... Abominable Sacred Stone... I will not suffer imprisonment again. How... You possess only one... Do not fool yourselves. You cannot fully imprison me... I will grind that wretched rock and your accursed bones to powder!

Eirika: There!
L’Arachel: We did it. The Demon King’s soul has been bound once more. But, Eirika, it’s not over yet. The Demon King’s soul rages against its prison. We must return it to its proper place–and quickly. But first, we must defeat the Demon King’s soulless body!
Eirika: That thing...
L’Arachel: Uh-huh...The real battle’s just beginning. Our ancestors paid dearly for their victory. A mountain of corpses...It’s written the Demon King was surrounded by the dead before he finally fell.
Seth: We’re all prepared to do what must be done.
Eirika: I have no desire to make any more heartbreaking sacrifices. I promised we would all return safely, and return safely we shall!

Ephraim: Did we do it?
L’Arachel: Yes, we did it. The Demon King’s soul has been bound once more. But, Ephraim, it’s not over yet. The Demon King’s soul rages against its prison. We must return it to its proper place–and quickly. But first, we must defeat the Demon King’s soulless body!
Ephraim: That thing?
L’Arachel: Uh-huh... The real battle’s just beginning. Our ancestors paid dearly for their victory. A mountain of corpses... It’s written the Demon King was surrounded by the dead before he finally fell.
Seth: We are all prepared to do what must be done.
Ephraim: No... I’ll do it. I have no intention of seeing anyone else die!

@End 
Eirika: That’s it. It’s over, isn’t it...
L’Arachel: Yes. Evil has been imprisoned, locked away. The legends of old have been mirrored in our actions today.
Innes: No, we’ve done far more than the legends ever told. We’ve destroyed the Demon King’s body. He can never come back.
Eirika: That’s right. And we have you all to thank for it.
Ephraim: And another thing... In that ancient battle, it took the might of the five heroes to do what we did. We did not have their extraordinary power to draw upon.
Eirika: No, we didn’t. We conquered darkness and restored peace to the land, thanks to you. It was because you never gave in, you never stopped fighting. None of you, not once. Thank you...
Syrene: This means we’ve accomplished our mission! I must relay the good news to King Hayden at once.
Tana: Yes. I’m sure Father will be most pleased. Brother! This means peace will be restored, doesn’t it... Shall I fly back to Frelia and let him know...
Innes: There’s no need to rush. I’m sure he knows. After all, we were together, and that ensured our victory.
Syrene: Of course, Prince Innes...
Moulder: Hmmm... Looks like we’re on the outside looking in, eh... Even so, the fighting’s over. And that’s something to be happy about.
Gilliam: Exactly.
Gerik: Well that took some doing, but we finally finished the job.
Tethys: We certainly earned our pay... Please tell me we’re going to enjoy it.
Marisa: Let’s go home, Chief.
Gerik: Let’s see now... Shall we head back to Jehanna... I guess we could stop in at the guild and get our next contract, eh...
Tethys: But the queen’s gone... I wonder what Jehanna will do now.
Gerik: I’m sure it’ll all work out. After all’s said and done, it’s our home. C’mon. It’s time for Gerik’s band to ride.
Marisa: Let’s go.
Joshua: ...... ...Hm... Heads. Looks like I should be getting back as well. Homecoming time...
Natasha: It’s over, isn’t it... The demon that drove Grado to madness is dead and gone.
Amelia: I-I can’t believe that I was part of this whole thing...
Cormag: The war is over. But so much remains to be done. Our country lost this war. The road ahead will be long and hard.
Duessel: That’s true. And yet... It’s a road we must travel. That’s the burden survivors must shoulder.
Knoll: Yes. And we must fulfill the dreams of Emperor Vigarde and Prince Lyon.
L’Arachel: Dozla, Rennac. We’ve done it.
Dozla: Gwaa ha ha! And a job well done it was, Princess L’Arachel.
Rennac: Whew... It’s finally over. So it’s about time for me to...
L’Arachel: Hold it! I gave you no orders to leave! I am the princess of Rausten, lest you forget. I have many missions yet to fulfill. Come, Dozla, Rennac. It’s time to go!
Dozla: Gwaa ha ha! Wait up! Let’s move, Rennac!
Rennac: ...Sigh.
Myrrh: ......
Saleh: ......
Myrrh: The darkness... It’s gone.
Saleh: Yes. That’s the end.
Myrrh: I guess so...
Saleh: Let’s return home, Lady Myrrh. Our friends and family will be worrying about us...
Ewan: What... Hey, Teacher! Where are you going... Wait up. I’m coming with you.
Garcia: You did well, Ross. You’re a true warrior, my pride and joy.
Ross: But you’re still the best, Father! That’s right! My father’s the best warrior in all Magvel!
Colm: Bah, I’m glad everyone’s so happy, but... They’d better not forget that they won only with our help. Right, Neimi...
Neimi: We all worked... together. Wasn’t that great...Colm... Sniff...
Colm: H-hey... Don’t start crying... Please...
Artur: O glorious light, were you witness to our victory... The foul demon has been purged from the earth.
Lute: The ancient Demon King was as powerful as the scrolls described. And yet, in the end, we were able to defeat him! After all, there’s no one better than us.
Seth: Your continued safety is all that matters to me, Princess Eirika.
Franz: General! Princess Eirika! We can finally return to Renais, can’t we...
Eirika: Yes, we can go home. All of us unharmed...
Forde: Ah, I’m exhausted. I’d like nothing more than to laze about a while... Alas, we’re not going to have that opportunity, are we, Prince Ephraim...
Ephraim: No. The reconstruction of Renais is going to keep us busy. Keep your strength up. I’m going to need you in the days ahead.
Kyle: We’ll be beside you through it all!
Eirika: All right, let’s go home. Let’s go back to the people who are waiting for us...

/***EOF***/
@Dialogue 
Eirika: ......
Ephraim: What is it, Eirika?
Eirika: I was thinking about Lyon. The last time we saw him was a year and a half ago...
Ephraim: You’re right. It was at Grado Keep. ...Has it really been only a year and a half?

@Flashback 
Eirika: Ephraim! Lyon! Where are you two?
Lyon: We’re over here, Eirika. You’d better be quick. Ephraim says he’s tired of waiting.
Eirika: Oh, please, I’m sure you could wait a few moments longer...
 
Ephraim: You’re late. How does it take you so long to prepare for such a simple trip?
Lyon: Rest easy, Ephraim. There’s no need to be so curt with your own sister. After all, a king must learn how to treat women with honor and discretion. That’s what Father MacGregor says.
Eirika: Thank you, Lyon. You, unlike my dear brother, are a true gentleman. I was up far too late thinking about my prayer to the temple flame last night. And I’m afraid I... I overslept...
Ephraim: Your prayer? What are you babbling about?
Lyon: Come now, you know that the flame has been burning since the time of darkness ended. You must know the story that the flame will answer the prayers of any pilgrim!
Ephraim: Really? I didn’t know that.
Eirika: Oh, Ephraim... Father MacGregor is going to scold you for neglecting your studies so.
Ephraim: ...Don’t even joke about that. So tell us, what have you decided to pray for, Eirika?
Eirika: I, uh... It’s a secret.
Ephraim: I should’ve known. You’re so boring.
Lyon: Well, how about you, Ephraim?
Ephraim: Me? Let’s see... I guess I’ll pray to become a stronger fighter.
Lyon: That’s just like you, Ephraim.
Eirika: Just like you indeed, Brother.
Ephraim: ... I can never tell if you’re complimenting me or mocking me.
Lyon: Praising you, of course! Right, Eirika?
Eirika: Hee hee... Yes, that’s right.
Ephraim: And you, Lyon? What will you pray for?
Lyon: What? Me? Hm... I suppose all I really want is for all our people to be happy.
Ephraim: ...That’s very, uh... That’s very much like you.
Eirika: Very much so, Lyon.
Lyon: ...Now, I’m the one who cannot tell if he’s being praised or...
Ephraim: You’re being praised, as always, Lyon.
Eirika: Tell me, why the sudden decision to visit the temple? Did my brother do something again?
Ephraim: Now listen, you...
Lyon: Oh no. It’s not what Ephraim’s done. It’s what he hasn’t done. He’s learned nothing at all about the Sacred Stones and the temple flame, so...
Ephraim: Father MacGregor became angry. He said, One destined to become king and rule over a nation... must know the history of his kingdom and must respect the Sacred Stones.?Ever since I came to Grado, my life has been chastisement and castigation. Father MacGregor does not think me to be altogether too...kingly.
Lyon: And yet General Duessel has nothing but praise for you, Ephraim. He says you’ve brave and true, that you’ve the making of a great king.
Ephraim: A great king? I honestly have no idea what that means. Eirika should succeed the throne. I would be happy simply taking my lance and traveling the land as a mercenary.
Eirika: Ephraim, that is nothing but foolish, irresponsible romanticism! Do you realize how much your words would fill Father’s heart with grief?
Ephraim: Are we speaking of the same man? Our father will likely outlive us all. For now, I’m content just learning the lance from General Duessel. What about you, Lyon? Is there anything you want to do?
Lyon: Me? Well, I... I suppose I want to become like my father.
Eirika: You were born to be the Emperor of Grado, Lyon. It suits you.
Lyon: No, I don’t think so. I’m not– One thing I do know from watching my father is that being emperor is hard. Every day, he answers the complaints of the people, and he almost never sleeps... My father is always so very tired. I hope one day that... I hope that I can help him.
Eirika: Lyon... You are so honorable. You should learn from him, Brother.
Ephraim: ...Again with your criticism! Tell me, Eirika. What say you to dressing like me and becoming king in my stead? You’re so skinny, I doubt anyone would notice you’re not really a man.
Lyon: Ha ha ha...
Eirika: Ephraim!

@Dialogue 
Eirika: What do you suppose Lyon is doing now? When Emperor Vigarde ordered the invasion... How do you think Lyon felt?
Ephraim: He’s always been so gentle, but he worships his father. He’d never question him. But the emperor... He’s clearly not behaving rationally. I just hope he’s not so far gone that he’d hurt his own flesh and blood.
Eirika: I just pray for the day when the three of us can be together once again.
Ephraim: It’ll come. I’ve no doubt...
 
Tana: Eirika! Ephraim! Welcome! The two of you returning together, it’s like a dream come true. You must know, I’ve prayed every day for your safe return.
Eirika: I’m so happy to see you, Tana.
Ephraim: I’m sorry, Tana. I didn’t want for you to worry.
Tana: Oh, it doesn’t matter now... All that really matters is that we’ve been brought together again. My own brother will soon return from the field. It will be nice to sit down and discuss things again.
 
Soldier: Princess Tana! Prince Innes has returned from the front!
 
Tana: Welcome home, dear brother! I’m so happy to see you return safe and sound!
Innes: You didn’t expect less, did you? Do you think Grado’s slugs could touch me? With my bow, I’ll take down every Grado soldier form here to the emperor’s palace!
Ephraim: Well met, Innes.
Innes: ...Ephraim.
Eirika: It’s good to see you, Prince Innes.
Innes: ...They say Renais has fallen. I believe I warned you before. This happened because you provided Grado the opportunity to strike.
Tana: Brother! Mind your tongue! This is no occasion for such harsh words. Ephraim and Eirika have lost their father to this terrible war...
Innes: ...... I’m sorry to hear of your father’s death. Hear me, Ephraim. Our most important task is to defeat Grado and end this war.
 
Tana: Oh, Innes... I’m sorry, Eirika, Ephraim.
Ephraim: It’s all right. It’s comforting to see that, in all of this, at least he hasn’t changed. Innes has hated me for as long as I can remember.
Tana: My brother looks upon you as a rival, Ephraim. And as you know, he wants to be the best at everything. The best king, the best general, the best fighter, the best man... He won’t allow himself to be beaten at anything.
Innes: Tana, you talk too much.
 
Innes: ...My father would like both of you to sit with him in a war council. Will you come with me to take part in your official audience?
Ephraim: Yes, of course. There’s much that I have to tell him.
Eirika: It will be out honor to attend.
Innes: This way.
Hayden: It does my heart good to see you all here safely within our castle walls. ...Would that we had more time for pleasantries, but...let us hear your news.
Innes: Very well, I will begin. I’ve directed the body of Frelia’s army south to engage Grado directly. Our troops are proving themselves superior, and the battle progresses favorably.
Hayden: Hmm... But the riddle still needs answering. Why did Grado begin this war in the first place?
Eirika: Your Majesty, we may well have found something relating to that... We learned something on our travels, news that weighs heavily upon us.
Hayden: Ah, yes. Our messenger delivered your report to us a few days ago. Grado is trying to destroy the Sacred Stones... Is that it?
Eirika: Yes.
Hayden: We’ve strengthened the tower’s defenses. Frelia’s stone is safe for the time being. But we remain confused in this. What does Grado hope to gain by destroying the Sacred Stones?
Eirika: We don’t know. The legends say the stones protect us all from the power of darkness.
Ephraim: ...I can’t say if it relates, but I have a story about Grado. It’s...been troubling me, and I would like to share it with you all. Myrrh. Come here, please.
Myrrh: Yes?
 
Hayden: Who’s this girl?
Eirika: On her back... Wings? Ephraim, who is she?
Ephraim: This is Myrrh. I met here while fighting in Grado territory. Myrrh, would you please tell everyone here the story you told me?
Myrrh: ...... ...Please, Ephraim, you tell them.
 
Ephraim: She’s a bit shy.
Ephraim: Very well. Myrrh tells me that she belongs to an ancient race of dragon folk. They’re mentioned in a few legends. They’re called the tribe of Manakete.
Eirika: Manakete?
Hayden: Yes, their name appears several times in the tale of the Sacred Stones. It says they were neither human nor demon but a separate, aloof race.
Ephraim: Please, Myrrh.
 
Myrrh: ...... We live in the east...in Darkling Woods. One day...
Eirika: Yes?
Myrrh: We felt something. An ominous energy to the south.
Ephraim: From the direction of Grado. They felt a...force flowing out of the Grado Empire.
Myrrh: Saleh and I... We went to investigate this energy. But on our way down, we came across a battle and were drawn into the conflict.
Ephraim: Myrrh got lost and was wandering aimlessly in an isolated region near Grado’s border.
Myrrh: I met some wicked folk there. They deceived and enchained me. They stole my dragonstone. They were preparing me for transport. It was in that moment when Ephraim appeared and rescued me.
Eirika: ......
Ephraim: I stumbled across Myrrh by chance when Grado’s men had ambushed us. Everything she told me seemed beyond belief, and yet... And yet, when I saw her wings, what could I do but believe?
Myrrh: This dark wave of energy still flows from the southlands. Its current is strong and runs deep. It has awakened the evil ones. I want to stop it.
Hayden: Hmmm......
 
Soldier: Your Majesty! I bring word!
Hayden: What is so urgent you would interrupt a private council?
Soldier: The tower holding the Sacred Stone of Frelia... It’s been destroyed by the Grado Army!
Hayden: What? That’s impossible! What of the soldiers on watch? There were supposed to be many...
Soldier: The enemy forces... They were led by Caellach the Tiger Eye and Selena Fluorspar! Our soldiers fell before even half a day had past!
Seth: Selena Fluorspar... Only General Duessel is higher in Emperor Vigarde’s esteem... She’s the one.
Hayden: She came personally... So they really do wish to see the Sacred Stones destroyed. Blast...
 
Caellach: Hah! So this hunk of rock is a Sacred Stone, eh? So much fuss over something as fragile as this. Watch. It crumbles so easily. Do we gain anything by this? Not that I care, but...
Frelia Soldier: Black-hearted...fool... What have...you...done? Without the stone’s...protection... the horrors...will spread...
Caellach: Huh? What’s this? Still breathing, are you? Come. If you’ve any last words, I’ll hear them, fool of Frelia.
Frelia Soldier: You...monster...
Caellach: You waste your last words on insults? And feeble ones, at that... Hardly the right note to enter the eternal on, wouldn’t you say? Well then, die.
 
Selena: Hold! What are you doing, Caellach?! Our job was to destroy the Sacred Stone.
Caellach: I know that. And I crush it, did I not? But if we don’t clean up these Frelian curs, they might–
Selena: You do not raise your blade to anyone who is powerless to resist you! The emperor does not desire us to kill without cause! That would be murder!
Caellach: Right, the emperor... Your name’s Selena, ain’t it? Tell me, Selena. What makes that pasty- faced old fool’s word so important?
Selena: Wretch... Do you dare insult His Imperial Majesty!?
Caellach: Hey, hey, I’m joking. Don’t get so worked up. I get it now. You’re a true and loyal soldier. I’m leaving before Frelia sends reinforcements. Coming?
Selena: ......
 
Hayden: How could this happen... How could I have allowed our Sacred Stone to be destroyed? Dark energies from the empire’s capital... Evil monstrosities roaming our lands... Vigarde’s mad invasion... And now this, the destruction of our sacred talisman. And we have no idea of Grado’s goals. We are in the dark times once again. But even so, we cannot sit here, wringing our hands. First, we must warn the nations that house the remaining Sacred Stones. If Vigarde seeks to destroy the Stones, they are all in grave danger. Jehanna and Rausten must be warned. The nations must joined together to fight our common foe.
Eirika: Do you think they will believe us?
Hayden: Hm... It is a difficult tale to believe, I must agree.
Innes: I will go, Father.
Hayden: Innes?
Innes: A direct visit from the Prince of Frelia is not something they can ignore. I will travel to Jehanna, where I will forge an alliance with her queen. If our Sacred Stone has been destroyed, the Frelia could be in greater danger. Father, I cannot let you leave the nation in such a time of crisis. It is imperative that I be the one to go.
Hayden: Hmmm...
Eirika: And I will head for Rausten.
Ephraim: Eirika? You know I can’t let you put yourself in such danger.
Eirika: Rest easy, dear brother. I will journey to Rausten by ship across the North Sea. There will be no danger. And I have made a vow. I will fight as you have until the day Renais is liberated.
Ephraim: ...I understand. King Hayden, I will take troops and march on the imperial capital from the west.
Hayden: The west?! Are you saying you will begin an assault on Grado from here?
Ephraim: If we can take Grado Keep, the war will be over. The Sacred Stones will be safe. If we start here and press forward with all our might...
Hayden: And once you reach the capital? Vigarde’s generals will be there waiting for you.
Ephraim: If they oppose us, we will fight.
Hayden: ...You’ve got your father’s foolhardy courage, don’t you? ...Very well. I entrust all our hope to you three. Innes, you will go to Jehanna, Eirika to Rausten, And Ephraim to the imperial capital. Funding you will have, but of soldiers, we have few to spare. For each of you, a difficult road awaits.
Ephraim: If any of us meets defeat, the battle will turn to Grado’s favor. There must be no errors. We must not fail.
Innes: Where I command, there are no mistakes.
Eirika: I have no doubts. I’ll succeed, I swear it. Come, it is time to go!
 
Eirika: Farewell, Brother. I will return.
Ephraim: Mm... To be honest, I still do not want you to go. I would rather you wait here for my return.
Eirika: Please, Ephraim... I will be fine. There’s no need for you to worry. Mine is the easiest task, and I’ll be in no danger. I’m far more worried about your mission. Challenging the might of an empire with a handful of men?
Ephraim: What’s this now? Have you lost your faith in me?
Eirika: No, of course not. I know your true strength, Ephraim. No one can defeat you.
Ephraim: Ha ha! Hearing you say that fills me with confidence. I think I know my own limitations. I won’t overextend my reach. I can’t die and leave you on your own, can I?
Eirika: Ephraim...
Ephraim: Let us both survive to be reunited. Give me your word, Eirika.
Eirika: You have it, Brother.
 
Narrator: Eirika and Ephraim will now part ways. Which of them will you accompany?
 
^start
Kyle: Princess Eirika!
Forde: Is your departure time near?
Eirika: Yes. Kyle, Forde, I’m traveling to Rausten. I ask that you two serve my brother well.
Forde: Actually, there’s been a slight change of plans.
Kyle: We’re going with you, Your Highness.
Eirika: What? But...
Kyle: Prince Ephraim rides with Frelia’s finest at his back.
Forde: And this was a personal order from the prince himself. He said, I don’t need you loafing around here. Go and keep Eirika safe.?Since when is battling all of Grado loafing about? Honestly!
Eirika: You’re right! My brother’s mission is far more dangerous than mine. I will go and speak with him...
Kyle: Princess Eirika. Prince Ephraim said he’s not concerned for his own safety. These are the words our prince gave us, and we believe he means them.
Forde: That’s the truth of it. There’s no cause for worry, Princess Eirika. We can all attest to the prince’s tenacity. No matter how close death comes, the Pale Horse will not catch him.
Eirika: ...Kyle, Forde... I understand. Thank you for your service and bravery. You are my brother’s most trusted and most valiant companions. I would be honored to have you ride at my side.
Kyle: The honor is ours. We ride for Renais and for Princess Eirika!
Forde: Let’s not work ourselves into a frenzy right now. When the time comes, I will be there to handle things.
Eirika: Of course. I’m depending on both of you.
 
Seth: Prince Ephraim.
Ephraim: Is that you, Seth? I’m almost ready to depart. I’m leaving Eirika in your care.
Seth: Actually, milord... We have the honor of riding with you.
Ephraim: What? What about Eirika?
Seth: The princess informs me that she will be accompanied by a Frelian escort. She tells me she does not need a large retinue on such a small ship.
Ephraim: I understand, but we must be prepared for anything. I will be fine, Seth. Please go and attend Eirika.
Seth: Lord Ephraim, this is Lady Eirika’s wish. She implored us to lend our blades to you on the front lines... She spoke to each of us individually. She knelt before us and beseeched us to go. Her sincerity, her concern... We could not help but be moved by her plea.
Ephraim: Oh, Eirika... Very well. You will all come with me. But steel yourselves. This will not be an easy journey. I want only volunteers who are unafraid of meeting death.
Seth: I’ll let the others know. I must tell you, milord–they are already preparing to depart. They know the risks they are taking, and not a one will be deterred.
^end
/***EOF***/
@Opening 
King Hayden apologizes for being unable to spare soldiers. However, he does provide Eirika with a small but trusted party of vassals. Eirika is grateful for the king’s aid. Chasing rumors of her brother, she sets out for Grado. The group’s first stop is the remote village of Ide, which was, until very recently, a part of Renais. Here, Eirika sees the devastation of Renais with her own eyes.

@Intro 
Eirika: Seth has mapped out a route for us. We’ll travel south of Renais and pass through Serafew into Grado territory.
Moulder: Hmm... That would seem a sensible plan. Assuming, of course, that we can avoid any run-ins with Grado soldiers...
Vanessa: Princess Eirika, may I have your leave to scout ahead? From the sky, I’ll have a better chance of spotting any nearby troops.
Moulder: We’re yours to command, Your Highness. Will you give your permission?
Eirika: Yes, of course. Keep an eye out for enemy bowmen though, Vanessa.
Vanessa: Yes, Your Highness, I shall. I shall prove myself worthy of the honor of your trust.
 
Eirika: She seems very...sincere.
Moulder: Sincere...Yes, quite.
 
Bone: Hey, boss! We’ve found more villages ripe for the picking.
Bazba: One, two, three... Ha ha ha! I love a good war! With all those soldiers preoccupied, we’re free to pillage as we please! Right, Bone–you’re in charge. Grab everything that’s not nailed down and bring it to the hideout.
Bone: I’m on it.
 
Ross: Dad! Bandits approaching!
Garcia: Hmmm... I’m getting you out of here, Ross. You stay close to me!
 
Bone: Let’s start with that village there! Go to it, boys! It’s all yours. Cut down anyone fool enough to get in your way. I’m heading west around the mountains to the other villages.
 
Ross: Unnnng!
Garcia: Ross? What is it? What’s wrong?
Ross: It’s nothing! It’s just a scratch! You’re a warrior, Dad, and I am your son. I won’t be beaten so easily.
Garcia: Don’t risk yourself so foolishly... We need to get you some help. Please! Someone help my son!
 
Vanessa: Ah! This looks serious. I must report back to Princess Eirika at once.
 
Vanessa: I have bad news. The village to the east is under attack by bandits.
Eirika: Bandits?!
Moulder: We have arrived at our first dilemma. We must move quickly and attract as little attention as possible, but...
Eirika: But I cannot stand by and watch innocents be harmed. Vanessa, how fare the villagers?
Vanessa: I spotted one injured person. He appeared to be just a child.
Eirika: Father Moulder, can your staff help him?
Moulder: Well, yes, I can heal his injuries with my staff, but... I cannot do it from here. He’s too far away. I must be near him.
Vanessa: Princess, please leave this to me. I shall bring the boy here.
Moulder: All right, Vanessa. It’s up to you.
Vanessa: Very well. I’m off.

@Visit 
Man: Hm? What is it? What’s all the ruckus? What? B-bandits?! Spread the word, everyone! Close the village gates! Thank you for your warning. Please, accept this small token.
 
Woman: This is terrible...What are we going to do? The Bandits are so close. If we can’t find some way to protect ourselves, the village is doomed.
Selena: Perhaps...
Eirika: People, listen to me! You must close the village gates immediately. Hurry, before the bandits arrive!
Selena: Who are you? You aren’t from one of the neighboring towns, are you. And your weapons give you away... You’re no peasant.
Eirika: I am Er... My name is Erina. I’m a mercenary.
Selena: A mercenary named Erina, is it? There’s more to you than that, I feel. But don’t worry–it’s none of my affair. I haven’t told you who I am yet, have I? I am Selena, a general in Grado’s army.
Eirika: Ah!
Selena: Is something wrong?
Eirika: No...uh, nothing.
Selena: It looks like these villagers have some bandit troubles. I would like to help, but I have orders... I’m to leave for the capital immediately, and I cannot stay. You’re armed, and you claim to be a mercenary. Will you help them?
Eirika: Um...
Selena: Is there a problem?
Eirika: No! Of course I’ll help them! It’s just...You’re one of Grados’ generals...Why...
Selena: These aren’t soldiers. They’re people. Should they suffer because their leaders fight? I’ve petitioned your aid. Take this as payment.
Eirika: ......

Selena: And who are you? You don’t look like one of the local peasantry. As you can see, the villagers have some bandit troubles. I would like to help, but I have orders to follow... I am required to quit this area at once. I would ask you to aid them in this fight. I will pay you for your trouble, of course.
 
Young Lady: The most wonderful man rescued me. He was dressed like a mercenary, but he had an air of elegance about him... He gave me this elixir. I’m sure it will help you on the battlefield.

@Recruit-Talk 
%Eirika,Ross
Ross: Hey, listen! My village is being attacked by bandits. My name’s Ross. Come on! You have to help me wipe those thugs out!
Eirika: All right, just... Just take a deep breath and calm down, Ross. Leave the villages to us. We’ll drive off the bandits. Seth, take the boy somewhere safe.
Ross: No! Wait! I’m going to fight, too!
Eirika: But...
Ross: My father is out there all alone, fighting those bandits. I’ve got to get back to him as quickly as possible! I’m the son of the great Garcia! As long as I have my axe, no bandit will ever defeat me!
Eirika: All right, I can see you’re not going to be swayed... But you must promise that you will stay close to us.
 
%Ross,Garcia
Ross: Dad!
Garcia: Ross?! Boy, what did I tell you!? What are you doing here? Don’t worry about me. Hurry up and get yourself to safety!
Ross: Did you really think I could just run away while you fight, Dad? You taught me that fighters fight for what’s important to them! There’s no way I’m leaving! I’m fighting just like you!
Garcia: Ross... All right, listen to me. We’ll cut our way out of here together!

@Boss 
Bone: Wait a minute! Wh-who are you?
 
Bone: Urgh...Blast...

@End 
Garcia: You saved my son. I owe you my thanks.
Eirika: It’s not necessary...
Seth: ...Hold on a moment... Aren’t you..the great Garcia? You fought for Renais, didn’t you?
Garcia: ......
Eirika: Seth, do you know this man?
Seth: He was a troop commander for Renais until around ten years ago. When I was a recruit, the soldiers used to tell so many tales about him. They called him a daring and fearless fighter for Renais. Master Garcia, you must know the peril our homeland faces right now... Can we impose upon you to lend your strength to Renais once again?
Garcia: ...I’m sorry. I’m retired now. I’m not a soldier anymore. It’s... a decision I made long ago.
Seth: Master Garcia...
Garcia: ...When I was a soldier, I lived my life fighting for my country’s honor. I left no time for my family. I spent my life fighting for faceless, uncaring nobles. When my wife fell ill and died, I met the child she had left behind... At that moment, I finally realized what my duty had cost me.
Eirika: ......
Garcia: I stood at my wife’s grave and promised her I would be a father to our son. I’m done with armies. I’m done with fighting, except to protect my son. I’ve no regrets. I’m the boy’s father.
Seth: ......
 
Ross: You...you blasted fool! Father, what’s all this nonsense I’m hearing?
Garcia: Ross!
Ross: If you’re not going, then I will! I’m a fighter! I know I can do this!
Garcia: Ross, what are you saying? I...
Ross: Dad, please! Listen to me! I respect you more than any other man in the world. I know you gave up being a soldier for me. I know that! But how can you throw away such a big part of yourself? You’re a warrior at heart! You can’t give that up and be happy!
Garcia: ......
Ross: Look at me, Dad! Have you seen me fight? I’m not a child anymore. I’m a warrior, like you. You’re free to worry, but I can survive on my own!
Garcia: ...Ross.
Ross: You want to challenge me, Father? I’m a fighter! The best in all of Ide! I’m not gonna lose to you! I’m not gonna lose to anyone!
Garcia: ...You’re right. You’re a good soldier, Ross.
 
Garcia: Sir Seth... If these old bones of mine can still serve, I’d like to join you.
Ross: Dad...
Garcia: Looks like my boy grew up while I wasn’t looking... He’s tougher than I thought. He doesn’t need my help. I’ve raised him as best I could, but he’s right. I’ve nothing to fear. I should fight. I will fight.
Ross: Dad!
 
Man: Thank you so much for your help. Please, stay the night and rest...
Eirika: We would if we could, but we have much to do and far to travel. Your safety is reward enough.
Man: Ah, well... My, that is a splendid bracelet you’re wearing.
Eirika: Thank you. My father gave this to me.
Man: It’s a wonderful gift. But you should be careful, wearing such a valuable item so openly. Since Renais was invaded, things have become so dangerous around here. There are gold-hungry thieves and bandits everywhere. The most wicked are Bazba’s Bandits. They are...cruel beyond words. If you have something they want, your life is worth less than nothing. Just the other day they assaulted some travelers and...Oh, it was awful.
Eirika: I...I can’t believe such things...
Man: Oh, Renais is finished, mark my words. The Grado Empire’s stolen our future. Our only hope against them was that Prince Ephraim would prevail, but... Rumor has it that he’s on the verge of being crushed by Grado’s vast numbers. These are dark days. Travel with care.
Eirika: ......
 
Eirika: Ephraim...
 
@Flashback
Ephraim: It’s time to start. Are you ready, Eirika? 
Eirika: Yes, Ephraim. Let’s begin. 
Ephraim: Tell me, though: why do you want me to teach you to fight? I thought you didn’t care for violence...
Eirika: I do not like uncivilized behavior. I think one can solve one’s problems without fighting. And yet...
Ephraim: And yet what?
Eirika: I’ve always relied on you to protect me, Brother. I would rather not be such a burden to you in the future. So, I thought maybe I should learn to protect myself...
Ephraim: I’m your brother. Brothers are supposed to protect their sisters. It’s nothing for you to worry about. It’s no cause for concern.
Eirika: Yes, but... I am your sister. Sisters are supposed to worry about their brothers. So I would like to learn something of swordplay, if only a little. And maybe, someday, I can protect you in your time of need... So please, Ephraim.
Ephraim: All right, all right. How could I say no? Honestly, once you get an idea into your head, that’s it. I might as well give in. It’s agreed. I’ll teach you, but won’t hold back because you’re my sister. And I want no complaining once we’ve started, Eirika.
Eirika: Complain? Me? Never!
 
@End
Eirika: ......
 
Colm: Oops! Beg your pardon.
Eirika: Hey!
 
Seth: Princess, are you all right?
Eirika: Y-yes... Someone bumped into me is all. I was jarred.
Seth: Hm? Your Highness, where is your bracelet?
Eirika: My bracelet? It’s...gone. Where could it be? Did that man–
Seth: I’ll find him!
Eirika: Don’t worry about it, Seth. That bracelet was a gift from my father, but Ephraim needs our help. I can’t let sentimentality get in the way of my duty.
Seth: No, Princess... We must retrieve your bracelet regardless of cost. You cannot lose it. Let’s go. We must hurry.

/***EOF***/
