@Conversation
Saint: The Sage’s Hamlet? Yes, I’ve heard of it. It’s said to be hidden away at the heart of the Lost Treescape, past the fortress built at the woods’ edge by Jedah of the Duma Faithful. One of his men guards the path there— a loathsome creature called Dolth.

Priestess: The sage Halcyon was once a high priest of Duma himself, but he was driven out by Jedah. Jedah was always jealous of the loyal followers who flocked to Halcyon, so he worked diligently to seal him away from the outside world.

Flustered Cleric: Oh, I’ve really gone and done it now... Here I am, entrusted with the silver platter, and I drop it in the waterway! That platter is one of Mila’s most cherished artifacts. I can’t go back without it—she’ll be furious! She might even...smite me. But how do I begin to...?

Flustered Cleric: Oh, what a relief! I was sure there was some major smiting on the way... Here, this is for your troubles. Please accept it! I insist!

Flustered Cleric: If you do happen to see the silver platter, please let me know.

Flustered Cleric: That’s Mila’s silver platter! The one I dropped in the waterway! Please, that platter is a ritual artifact much beloved by the Earth Mother. May I please have it back? I beg it of you!

Flustered Cleric: No! You must reconsider!

Flustered Cleric: Mila’s silver platter lies at the water’s bottom! Oh, what to do, what to do...

Bewildered Woman: I made the pilgrimage here in search of medicine to treat my ailing daughter. But with the temple in this state, it seems my long trip was in vain. I’ve waited days for an audience with Mila, but still haven’t been granted one. All I need is a medicinal syrup made of mana herbs. If I had that, I could likely cure my daughter the theraputic way. And if Mila won’t intercede, finding that syrup may be my only hope.

Bewildered Woman: When I think of my daughter writhing in pain while I waste time here... I must find some way to get the medicinal syrup. I must!

Bewildered Woman: Is this...a medicinal syrup? And one made from mana herbs?! Oh, thank you! Thank you! My daughter will live! Oh, I can’t begin to express my relief... Please, let me repay you. This is all I have, but you must take it.

Bewildered Woman: No, I understand. It must be more valuable than a mere child’s life...

@Recruit-Conversation
Nomah: Ah, Celica! I’m glad to see you safe, child.
Celica: Nomah? What in the world are you doing here?
Nomah: Not to put too fine a point on it, but I was worried about you. I followed you as far as this temple, but this place is just so LARGE! I’m embarrassed to say I got a bit lost, little one. Heh heh heh!
Celica: Oh, dear. Well, I’m glad to see you in good spirits nonetheless.
Nomah: perhaps we’d both enjoy more peace of mind if we stayed together. Might I travel with you from here on?

Nomah: I see. Well, I would hate to be the cause of worry, little one. I thought I had some action left in me still, but you know best.

Nomah: Ah! Hello again. Decided you couldn’t quite rest easy without me at your side, eh?

@Intro 
Celica: This place gives me chills... Small wonder it’s got a charming name like Dead Man’s Mire.
Saber: I can handle dead men. It’s this humidity that’s killin’ me! Let’s clear a path and get going already.
Celica: No arguments here.
Jedah: Anthiese...
Celica: Huh?
Saber: What is it, lass?
Celica: I thought I heard someone calling my name...
Saber: You sure? I didn’t hear anything.
Celica: Perhaps this place is simply preying on my imagination.

@Boss 
Garcia: Heh heh heh... Yessss, come to me. I’m gonna lay you to sleep at the bottom of this beautiful swamp.

Garcia: No! I was meant for...so much...

@End 
Saber: Curse these bones... I can’t stand fightin’ with mud squishin’ in my boots! We need to get out of this place yesterday. Whaddya say, lass?
Celica: Yes, let’s...
Jedah: Anthiese... This way... Come to me... if you wish to save Mila...and the boy...
Celica: *gasp* What?! Just who ARE you?
Saber: Celica? Where the hell are you going?!

Jedah: Keh heh heh... Welcome, Anthiese, crown princess of Zofia. Bearer of the Brand, and one marked by fate.
Celica: Who are you?
Jedah: My name is Jedah. First disciple to the great and glorious Duma.
Celica: You... You’re the one holding Mila!
Jedah: Oh, indeed I am! However, if you wish for her release, I propose a bargain.
Celica: What kind of bargain?
Jedah: Mila is well and good, but what I truly desire...is you. If you will offer up your soul to Lord Duma, I will cede Mila. She will be free to return to Zofia.
Celica: What kind of a bargain is that?! Why is my soul of any value to you?
Jedah: Have you never thought it strange, Princess Anthiese? Rigel and Zofia are twin nations founded on the backs of divine dragons. And yet, dire changes currently befall them both. Duma seeks power vast enough to destroy all balance in the world. Meanwhile, Mila’s intemperate bounty drives the Zofians to depravity.
Celica: Mila provides for her children!
Jedah: Her soul, as Duma’s, is host to the madness shared by all dragonkind. Duma will grow stronger till that power brings his ruin—and Rigel’s alongside it. It is no different from how Zofia now rots in Mila’s absence.
Celica: Her absence by your hand! And what is this madness you speak of? Do you truly claim that Mila and Duma are fated to destroy themselves?
Jedah: I do. Which is exactly why your soul is required. It is rare and precious—born of Zofian royal blood and marked by the Brand. Such a soul could set Duma’s path to rights and ensure his survival. And with Mila restored to her place, both our peoples might be saved. As for the boy, Alm—if you do this, he could lay down his arms.
Celica: *gasp*
Jedah: Well? What say you? I think it is a most generous offer, myself...
Celica: ...Perhaps you’re right. In fact, it may be TOO generous. How can I possibly believe a thing that you’ve told me?
Jedah: I have spoken only truth, Princess. But you needn’t give your answer now. I will await your reply atop Duma Tower. Keh heh heh...
Celica: ......
Saber: There you are!
Celica: Oh, Saber...
Saber: The hell happened back there? It ain’t like you to just charge off.
Celica: I’m sorry. ...I’m so sorry.
Saber: Hmm? What’s going on, lass? You look pale.
Celica: ...Nothing. Come. We need to hurry.
Saber: Celica...

@Intro 
Boey: What’s this? Another graveyard? ...Of course it is.
Mae: Ugh, seriously? How are you not used to this by now? If you’ve seen one ghoul-ridden deathscape, you’ve seen ’em all!
Boey: I suppose you have...something of a point. Fine. Let’s press on.
Mae: Actually, looks like this place is full of necrodragons. So that’s new!
Boey: Eeeyaaaaugh!

Dolth: Heh heh heh. Welcome, child of fate. Once your soul is offered up to Lord Duma, our aims will be realized. Surely there is no call for needless struggle. This way, Your Highness...
Celica: I...
Mae: Guess what, pal? I don’t care what kind of whacko nonsense you’re spouting— I won’t let you lay a finger on Celica!
Dolth: Hmph. The buzzing of ignorant flies is so very vexing. Perhaps the jaws of my necrodragons will silence your interruptions!

@Boss 
Dolth: Such stubborn children... It appears a lesson in pain is in order.

Dolth: Impossible...

@End 
Dolth: Wait... Anthiese!
Boey: He’s still alive?!
Dolth: How long will you place the lives of your friends at risk, Your Highness? You’re more clever than that.
Celica: That’s not...
Dolth: Come to Duma’s side!
Saber: What’s wrong with you, lass? Run!
Mae: Don’t be a crazy person, Celica! You can’t let him take you!
Dolth: Silence!
Mae: Aaah!
Celica: Stop! Leave them alone! Please! I’ll do whatever you ask!
Boey: Milady, no!
Dolth: You’ve made a wise decision, Your Highness. Now come, Anthiese...
Celica: Don’t go! Celica, you can’t... CELICA!
Dolth: Gwaaagh!
Celica: What...?
Masked Knight: ......
Celica: You!
Masked Knight: ......
Celica: Aaah!
Boey: Hey! What do you think you’re doing?!
Masked Knight: Would you so easily cast your life aside?
Celica: I... That’s not— My choices are not your matter, sir.

Masked Knight: Not my matter?
Celica: You have aided me more than once, and I am grateful for it. But who are you to presume to know better how I might spend my life?! What could you possibly know about me?!
Mae: Celica... What’s going on? It’s not like you to act out like this...
Celica: Nothing is going on, Mae. Please just leave me alone. None of you can possibly know what I’m feeling.
Mae: Celica, that’s not fair!
Masked Knight: That’s not true, Celica. I know. ...As only a brother can.
Celica: ...What?
Conrad: It’s been a long time, huh, Sis?
Celica: You... But that’s... Conrad?! I don’t know how, but... Is it really you?! I was certain you were dead!
Conrad: I managed to escape the night they burned the villa. Some of the attendants led me to safety. From there, I fled straight to Rigel. My mother’s home. Desaix’s reach is long, but even he couldn’t follow me into the empire.
Celica: I should hate you for letting me mourn all this time, and yet...I’m so happy... But how did you come to possess my circlet?
Conrad: It was entrusted to me. I had orders to pass it on to you once you grew into your role.
Celica: Entrusted by who?
Conrad: Sorry, but I swore an oath never to reveal that information. Once I received it, however, I learned you’d left the island. I was so worried about you, I decided to follow and make sure you were safe. I never wanted to lie to you, but... Well, you weren’t the only one in hiding.
Celica: Heh. So that’s why you wore the mask?
Conrad: Well, it IS rather dashing, isn’t it?
Mae: Hah! You think THAT thing is—
Boey: Mae! He’s Celica’s older brother. You know, royalty?
Mae: Oh, right. Sorry. But man, he sure is a lot less moody once that mask comes off, huh? He’s like a completely different guy!
Boey: Almost as if he pretends to be someone else while in disguise. ...Imagine that.
Mae: Oh yeah... Hee hee! Yeah, that was dumb.
Conrad: I actually hadn’t intended to reveal myself at all. Halcyon—who looked after me at the Sage’s Hamlet—made me swear not to. I’ll have to work on my apology before I go back there... He’s right, though. The most dangerous thing I could be is not dead. But after watching you... I couldn’t listen to you speak as if you were all alone in the world. It drove a knife right through my heart.
Celica: Conrad... I’m so sorry.
Conrad: Please don’t apologize. I understand. I watched you come this far, after all. I saw you bear the weight of the world by yourself as Zofia’s crown princess. But from this point on, I’d like to share that burden with you. I’ll be at your side and protect you with my life. But you have to promise me something first... Don’t ever try to throw your life away like that again.
Celica: You’re right. I’m sorry, Conrad...

@Dialogue
Conrad: This marks the entrance to the Lost Treescape. The Sage’s Hamlet—where Halcyon lives—lies within.
Celica: I’ve heard it said a curious power is at work in these woods. And that the trees themselves conspire to hide the path to the hamlet. I’m grateful we have you to lead the way. So then, Brother—which way do we head first?
Conrad: Er, yeah... See, this was actually my first time leaving the woods alone. And I’m not exactly sure how to... you know. Get back? But hey, adventure! We’ll just find the path together!
Celica: Y-yes, adventure. ...Shall we get started, then?

Celica: This wood is thick and dark, and plays havoc with one’s sense of direction. The tall stone pillars stand as sentinels, keeping watch over our intrusion.

Celica: Er, Sage Halcyon? Sir? I’m—
Halcyon: Ah! Celica, child of fate. I’m glad you’ve come,
Celica: Child of fate... You’re not the first to call me that. But I have no idea where my fate lies. Please, Halcyon. Grant me guidance. Tell me what fate holds for me. I’m so lost... I don’t know what to do!
Halcyon: I know you have suffered much along the path here, Celica. But I fear I ken no more of anyone’s fate than you do. What I do ken, however, is this: Two things exist to guide you. One is the Brand you bear. The other is your soul’s pair with the selfsame mark.
Celica: The selfsame... Do you mean Alm?
Halcyon: Indeed. Why were you born with the Brand? And why are there two of you? These are the questions you must consider. And always remember that you are not alone.
Celica: ...Right. Thank you, Sage Halcyon.
Halcyon: Of course, child. But while I cannot read the future, my magic may yet assist you. If there is anything you wish for, tell me.
Celica: I...I wish nothing for myself. But I am worried for Alm. Please, if such a thing is possible, use your powers to help him.
Halcyon: The other child of fate? Yours is a generous heart. Very well...
Celica: Ah! What just happened?
Halcyon: I sent my powers on to Alm. With them, he will be able to draw on new strength beyond himself. He need only will for it.
Celica: Oh, thank you, Halcyon!
Halcyon: Tell me, Celica. Do you wish to see Alm?
Celica: What? Well, of course I do, but... I doubt Alm is eager to see me. I said terrible things to him when we last parted.
Halcyon: Heh heh. The fire of youth at work. All the more reason to meet and speak again, no? I can send you to him if you desire it. Not your physical form, but a projection of your mind. Enough to speak, at least.
Celica: Is that really possible?
Halcyon: It is. Close your eyes, child. ......

Celica: Alm...
Alm: Hmm? I heard my name...
Celica: Alm, it’s me. It’s Celica!
Alm: Celica? How are you here? Actually, where are you? Come out already!
Celica: Alm! I can’t believe I actually have this chance...
Alm: Celica! Is this...just an illusion? Is it really you?
Celica: Yes, it’s me. Sage Halcyon’s magic is allowing me to speak with you. Oh, I’ve missed you so much!
Alm: I’m happy to see you, too.
Celica: Alm, listen, I... *sob* I...
Alm: Whoa, what’s wrong? ...Celica? Did something happen? Are things not going as well as you’d hoped? Augh, I wish you were here in person! I don’t know what to... Please don’t cry.
Celica: Y-you’re not angry? I said such terrible things to you back at the castle.
Alm: Huh? Wait, that’s been bothering you? I mean, sure, I was sad you didn’t seem to see my side of things. But I’d never get mad at you.
Celica: Why not?
Alm: ...Why not? You sure do like putting me on the spot. Didn’t we have a similar conversation years ago?
Celica: Ha! *sniff* I suppose we did. You were always so nice to me, while I— While I’m always thinking only of myself. I’m sorry, Alm...
Alm: Celica? What’s wrong?
Celica: I’ve finally remembered why I left the island in the first place. I’m going to see Duma.
Alm: What? No! Celica, the Duma Faithful are— It’s too dangerous! There’s no telling what they’ll do to you!
Celica: Even so, I have to go. Mila wasn’t in her temple, Alm.
Alm: Huh? What does that mean?
Celica: Emperor Rudolf attacked. She’s being held captive in Duma Tower. That must be the reason why Zofia’s land has gone barren.
Alm: No... The emperor?
Celica: And that’s why I must go— I have to free Mila. I’m the only one who can.
Alm: Wait, Celica... I finally figured it out, but... you’re actually... You’re the princess of Zofia, aren’t you? Princess Anthiese.
Celica: ...I am. Heh. I guess my secret’s out.
Alm: Ugh, now I’m cringing at what I said to you before. Talk about thoughtless! Forgive me, Celica. But don’t worry—I promise I’ll get your kingdom back. So please promise me in turn that you won’t—
Celica: It’s kind of you, Alm. But I have to. Just winning this war isn’t enough.
Alm: What? I don’t understand.
Celica: It’ll be clear to you soon. I’ll do everything I can here. Please just...be safe.
Alm: Celica? Wait, Celica! Celica!

@Conversation 
Halcyon: Duma Tower is just ahead. Be well prepared before you go.

Cleric: This place is called the Sage’s Hamlet. The great sage Halcyon’s magic shields us from evil. If you wish to speak with him, you’ll find him at his home.

Young Woman: Halcyon was once a priest of the Duma Faithful. There he struggled against Jedah, who sought to rule by force and terror. But in the end, he was driven out... This place has been his hermitage ever since.

Young Man: This whole area has been tainted. The legacy of Dolth and Garcia’s wicked experiments. I had always thought Emperor Rudolf a wise man, but only a fool would suffer the abuses of the Duma Faithful to grow so bold. If I’m honest, I’m cheering for Zofia’s Deliverance in all this.

Man: Do you all really mean to fight Jedah? I urge you to reconsider. He’s a terrifying man. If you must fight him, there’s only one way. Four... Eight... Twelve... Nraagh! I-it hurts...! J-Jedah’s...curse...!

Woman: Conrad’s mother was of Rigelian noble birth. She was forced to wed the king of Zofia in order to procure food for Rigel... Can you imagine such a fate? My blood boils to even think of it!

Hermit: I’ve spent my life here brewing nectar, drink of the gods. Duma and Mila both have partaken of my humble creations. Know you how nectar is made? ...No? Then let me enlighten you! Steep one gargoyle ear in medicinal syrup to form the base. Pour in bonewalker oil and mix well, then allow it to ferment while agitating. Season the result with Duma moss, and the work is done. Voila! Nectar! A libation fit to make the grandest gods salivate! You’re drooling over the prospect as well, no doubt. Bring me the ingredients, and I might be convinced to make you a batch. That’s medicinal syrup, Duma moss, a gargoyle ear, and bonewalker oil!

Hermit: Medicinal syrup, Duma moss, a gargoyle ear, and bonewalker oil... Excellent! You’ve all the ingredients required to make nectar! However, the fermentation process takes three days. Return to me then. But do return, for a taste of heaven itself awaits you!

Hermit: You don’t desire a taste of nectar? ...How odd. Are you sure you are well?

Hermit: You haven’t the ingredients. I need medicinal syrup, bonewalker oil, a gargoyle ear, and Duma moss. If you wish to taste nectar, you must procure those items.

Hermit: I need medicinal syrup, bonewalker oil, a gargoyle ear, and Duma moss. If you wish to taste nectar, you must procure those items.

Hermit: Ah, there you are. I’ve been waiting. You’re dying from anticipation, no doubt. But here! Your nectar awaits!

Hermit: If you ever desire another taste, return once more with the ingredients.

Scholarly Man: I’ve been poring over these resources in my studies to create new medicines. One book tells of a foreign land’s theory of food as medicine. It prescribes liver for those with ailing livers, brains for headaches, and so on. I found the idea most fascinating. Consider the gargoyle—it hears the faintest sound of its prey, then strikes! Imagine what a medicine brewed from its ears could do for a person. Which brings me to a request... Could I impose upon you to procure three gargoyle ears? Please! My research needs you!

Scholarly Man: Have you managed to find three gargoyle ears?

Scholarly Man: What splendid specimens! Please, take this for your time.

Scholarly Man: I’ll begin work on formulating that new medicine immediately. Things are about to get busy around here!

Scholarly Man: But what use could you have for... Mmm. Perhaps I don’t want to know.

@Boss 
Jamil: You persist in your ignorance of Duma’s teachings at your own peril!

Jamil: Duma’s blessings...be upon us...

@Intro 
Celica: ......
Conrad: Something wrong? The closer we get to Duma Tower, the quieter you become.
Celica: What? No I don’t! ...Er, do I? I suppose I’m just getting a bit nervous as we draw near.
Conrad: And...that’s really it? You’re not hiding anything?
Celica: Conrad, you’re worrying over nothing.
Conrad: Well, all right, if you say so.
Celica: ......

@Battle 
Jedah: Keh heh heh. I’m so pleased you’ve come, Anthiese.
Celica: Enough talk, Jedah! I’ve come to judge the truth of your claims. I will meet with Mila first. Any decision I reach will come after.
Jedah: As you will. But my bargain was with you alone. The rest will die for trespassing upon this holy place.
Celica: What? But my life is the only one you need!
Jedah: This is true. But I’ve no fondness for interruptions, and they’ve proven the meddling sort. I trust you will forgive me for being cautious.
Celica: Gods, he’s completely mad... Everyone, be careful!

@Boss 
Jedah: I’ve no use for any of you save Anthiese. Now begone!

Jedah: Keh heh heh... Your struggling is most precious. But I’ll not end your meager little lives quite yet. Anthiese! You will ascend Duma Tower and join me at its pinnacle! ...Unless you wish to lose your precious Alm, that is.

%Sonya,Jedah 
Sonya: Jedah!
Jedah: Well, if it isn’t Sonya.
Sonya: You’ve no idea how long I’ve waited for this day. You stole the lives of my sisters and cursed them to become witches! I will avenge them with your blood!
Sonya: Their souls were offered to Duma freely, and both received endless bliss in turn. Only a fool would refuse to see a truth so plain. You are a burden to your wise sisters, and I shall relieve them of it now!

@End 
Celica: I’m so sorry. I never thought it would play out that way.
Saber: You’re SORRY?! What in the name of hell just happened here? You KNOW that dog Jedah? And what’s this “bargain” he was talking about?
Celica: I... I can’t say. I know that’s not what you want to hear, but—
Saber: Just...stop. You’ve been full of secrets from the start, and I knew you had your reasons. But I thought you’d at least give me a little bit of trust at this point.
Celica: I do trust you, Saber! I trust all of you with my very life! But this is something...different.
Saber: Dammit, lass! That’s—
Celica: I’m sorry, Saber. But right now, we have to get to Duma Tower. Mila is there, and it’s imperative that I speak with her. Once I do that, I swear I’ll tell you everything. Until then, I have to ask that you place your trust in me one more time.
Saber: ...Ah, hell. You know I trust you. But you better start talking as soon as you’re done with Mila—got it?
Celica: I will. I promise.

@Dialogue 
Celica: The tower is massive... Oppressive. Like Duma's power given form. What lies beyond the quest for ever-greater power? Perhaps that answer lies at the tower's peak.

Jedah: Impressive. I did not expect all of you to make it here.
Celica: Enough talk. I will see Mila now. Where is she?
Jedah: Keh heh heh... Such impatience is unseemly, Your Highness. And at any rate, I’m afraid Mila isn’t here. She’s underground—on Lord Duma's altar.
Celica: I don’t understand.
Jedah: I can grant you sight, if you so desire. Gaze now upon your precious Earth Mother!
Celica: Oh no! What have you done?!
Mae: Sh-she's been turned to stone!
Conrad: Look there! Piercing her brow! Is that...Falchion?
Jedah: You have a keen eye, boy. It is indeed the divine blade. You will likely doubt me when I say this, but that was Mila's doing. The moment Emperor Rudolf sealed her power, Mila sealed away Falchion. Do not ask me her motive in this, for I understand it not. But no force in this world now remains which can harm Lord Duma. She's left her children to their fates! Kyaaaaaa ha ha ha ha!
Celica: No... This isn't possible!
Celica: Mila, I don’t understand. Why would you do this? Have you truly forsaken us?!
Jedah: Heh heh heh, Your lamentations are wasted, child. If you truly wish for her release, you know what must be done. You must offer up your soul to Lord Duma.
Boey: Did he just say what I think he said?
Mae: Offer her...soul? Oh gods! Celica, no! He wants to turn you into a witch! That is a REALLY bad idea!
Celica: *sigh* There's no other choice. Without the divine dragons' power, all of Valentia's people are lost, and the only thing that can save the dragons is the soul of a Brand-bearer.
Saber: So... that's what you couldn't tell us.
Celica: [sadly] *sigh*
Conrad: Anthiese, you made me a promise, remember? You promised not to throw your life away again.
Celica: I'm sorry, Conrad. I'm sorry, everyone. Please forgive me... I can't tell you how much it means to me that we’ve come so far together.
Conrad: Anthiese!
Jedah: You lot are no longer necessary. Begone to wherever you will.
Boey: Huh?!
Mae: *screams*
Celica: NO!
Jedah: Calm yourself, Your Highness. I've merely sent them below. As for your preparations, I fear they will take some time yet. You can while away the hours here watching the boy suffer.
Celica: Alm? No!
/***EOF***/
@Dialogue 
Alm: ......
Clive: A word, Alm?
Alm: Clive! Did we receive a reply to our petition?
Clive: Unfortunately, no. The empire’s silence is likely its answer. I believe it wise to resign ourselves. Emperor Rudolf has no intention of treating for peace. He means to continue his march on Zofian soil.
Alm: Damn...
Clive: Our men are approaching their limit. And Rigel's climate is far colder than what they knew in Zofia. Further delaying here will only sap their strength and morale.
Alm: All right, Clive. I trust your judgment. Let’s get ready to march.
Clive: Understood. I’ll pass word to the others and prepare them to cross into the empire.
Alm: ...... What’s all of this leading to?
Gray: Hey, Alm! I heard the news—guess the time’s finally come, eh?
Alm: Yeah. We’re headed into Rigel. We’ll need to be more careful than ever past this point.
Gray: Hey, careful is my middle name! ...No, really. I had it legally changed. ...Not even a chuckle? Really? Come on, what’s with the glowering? We’ve got this. Hell, I’VE got this! We’re not the same scraggly runts we were when we left Ram, you know? I’ll forge a new legend in battle! Heh, Clair'll probably throw herself at me. If Tobin comes crying about suddenly wanting to leave, don’t get mad, okay?
Alm: Heh heh. That...would be a problem. I need Tobin right where he is. Thanks, Gray. For everything. I’m counting on you.
Gray: 'Course. Still, I don’t see why the wind here’s gotta be so damned cold.
Alm: Is it really that bad?
Gray: You’re not freezing your tenders off? I’m impressed.
Alm: It’s not that it doesn’t feel cold. It's more like...I know this feeling. Like the air here’s familiar.
Gray: Never mind. Come on, let’s go.

@Conversation 
Sluice Keeper: This sluice gate was built roughly one hundred years ago. One marvels at our ancestors for crafting something so complex. Sadly, none have operated the sluice in so long that the machinery is rusting. I’d like to do fix the problem before the entire works become unusable. But alas, I’ve run out of the special oil I need to perform the maintenance. Do you think you could help?

Sluice Keeper: Perhaps you’ve seen Terrors called bonewalkers? Those with heads aflame? The reason their heads burn is because of a special oil stored in their skulls. That same oil works wonders on machinery. Takes the rust right out! Once you’ve gone bonewalker oil, there’s no going back. ...Heh. So if it’s not a hassle, could you hunt some bonewalkers and gather their oil?

Sluice Keeper: Have you obtained the bonewalker oil?

Sluice Keeper: Ah! This is bonewalker oil, all right. I can use this to polish the sluice parts until they sparkle! Thanks for going through the trouble. Here’s a little reward.

Sluice Keeper: As you can see, the sluice machinery is massive! You can never have too much bonewalker oil around here. Drop by whenever you acquire some.

Sluice Keeper: Wait, you want the oil for yourself? But it’s useless! Terrible for the skin!

Girl: Hey, do you like cute things? ‘Cause I LOVE cute things!

Girl: Mamma Mila! That’s adorable! Are you sure I can have it? Thanks soooo much! Oh, and you can have this ’cause you’re nice.

Girl: Eeeew, gross! I don’t want THAT!

Girl: That is not even slightly cute. Puh-lease!

Girl: Don’t try to fool me just ’cause I’m an adorable little girl!

Girl: That’s not quite what I had in mind.

Girl: You haven’t shown me even one iota of cute yet. Why did I even ask?! *siiiiiigh*

@Intro 
Lukas: Alm? We’re ready to march. According to our intelligence, Rigel’s forces await in the forest ahead. General Berkut is commanding them personally.
Alm: Berkut... I guess they’re serious about holding the border.
Lukas: Indeed. Yet we’ve no choice but to cross it.
Alm: ...Right.
Berkut: You kept me waiting, Alm. I was starting to wonder if you’d actually come.
Alm: Berkut!
Berkut: That’s quite the little army you’ve assembled. I’m almost impressed. For a ragtag group of gathered scraps, the Deliverance actually looks the part.
Alm: ......
Berkut: Still, it seems you’ve all let a few meager successes go to your heads. Who are you to dare threaten Rigel’s borders? Lowborn fool. Do you truly fancy yourself the next king of Zofia?! You must learn your place!
Clive: You’ve got it all wrong, Berkut.
Fernand: Clive?
Clive: I've been at Alm’s side from the outset, watching all that he has done. He’s a brave warrior, and a good man worthy of the crown. He’s made such clear to me time and again.. The right of kings is not decided by blood or station. It lies in what a man believes. What keeps him up at night. It lies in a man’s actions!
Fernand: Enough already! You would throw away your pride as a Zofian noble and bow to a commoner?! I see now that the Clive I once knew is well and truly dead. Now it falls on me to bury him!

@Cutscene 
Soldier: We’re all ready, sir.
Alm: Understood.
Soldier: What is it, sir?
Alm: Sorry. I’m ready.
Alm: Warriors, it’s time! Time to defeat Emperor Rudolf, and bring this bloody war to an end! Now then—who will defend Zofia?!
Soldiers: We will defend her!
Alm: Then charge!
Fernand: My lord!
Berkut: Follow me! These worms have no right to crawl onto our soil!

@Battle 
Berkut: Only death awaits those who would profane Rigel’s soil. Consider it a mercy your bones will rest here, in sight of your homeland!

Berkut: Nrgh... No... Am I to lose again? AGAIN?!

Fernand: Your existence is a black mark on the honor of Zofia. It ends today!

Fernand: Gyaugh! How...how can I lose to such rabble...?

@End 
Berkut: Nnngh... Damn you.
Alm: You’re plenty strong, Berkut. No one would deny that. But that’s why I must end this here.
Berkut: I can’t believe it’s come to this...
Alm: What’s—
Tobin: Nnnh... Waaaaaugh! Wh-what’s happening, Alm?!
Alm: Tobin! Everyone! Are you all right?
Ally Soldier: [screaming] H-Help me! Please!
Alm: By the gods... Are those...hands sprouting from the earth? Is this some kind of magic?!
Lukas: No, at least not as we know it. Our own magic doesn’t seem to have any effect. This is something else entirely... Waugh!
Alm: Lukas! I’ve got to do something before-- Berkut, what have you done?!
Berkut: So this is Duma's power? It’s...it’s hideous...
Alm: You did this?
Berkut: You’ve no need to know any more. You’ll die here with the rest.
Alm: Berkut, wait! WAIT! ...Rragh! I won’t let it end here. Not before I see you again, Celica!
Alm: ...Huh?
Tobin: Whoa. What was that light?
Alm: Celica’s charm? Then maybe... Celica, can you hear me? Please, I’m begging you, help me! Help us all!
Berkut: What? Impossible! Duma’s spell is broken?! How did you do this?!
Alm: I don’t know. I just said a prayer to someone I love.
Berkut: Bah! Spare me your treacly platitudes! I was meant for greatness! But you, you’re just a...just a...
Fernand: Lord Berkut! The spell is broken, but they haven’t the strength to give chase. You must use this time to escape!
Berkut: You would have me retreat in the face of these dogs?!
Fernand: I would ask that you live! His Excellency the Emperor will understand. Now go! Quickly!
Berkut: Rragh!
Fernand: Did that power truly come from Duma? There is no pride in resorting to such unholy means. What is it the Empire—no, the Duma Faithful—are trying to accomplish?
Tobin: They’re gone, Alm. Should we go after them?
Alm: No. Pursuing them in our current condition is only asking for further losses.
Tobin: Well, what you did just now was pretty incredible. But, uh... What DID you do, exactly?
Alm: Honestly, Tobin, I panicked. I said a frantic prayer to the charm Celica gave me and then... it must have been her. She saved us.
Tobin: Huh... Guess I owe somebody a big thank-you next time we bump into her.
Alm: Yeah, Tobin. I think we all do.

Berkut: DAMN HIM! Why?! Why can’t I beat him?! To be humiliated so by a commoner! And TWICE, no less!
Rinea: My lord, please! You must try to calm down. You are safe. That’s all I need to be—
Berkut: SILENCE, woman! What could you possibly know?!
Rinea: *gasp* Berkut...
Berkut: From childhood, all that’s ever been asked of me is strength. It is my duty as one born to stand above others! To rule! I’ve been taught that all my life! By my father, my mother! How am I to remain calm in the face of defeat at the hands of peasants?! I even debased myself by making use of that deviant’s powers! And it’s still not enough?
???: Call to me...
Berkut: Hngh?!
???: You who thirst for power... Call to me...
Berkut: Who is... Identify yourself!
Rinea: Berkut? What’s the matter? You’re frightening me...
Berkut: You don’t hear it? What was that voice...?

@Intro 
Alm: Where do these woods lead, exactly?
Clive: To Fear Mountain. Home to Nuibaba of the Duma Faithful. Most would cross the Rigel Plains to the west to reach the imperial palace, so there’s no NEED to take this route, should we wish for safer passage...
Lukas: I propose that we advance regardless.
Alm: Why is that, Lukas?
Lukas: I’ve heard grim reports of this arcanist Nuibaba. She’s of a kind with General Jerome, who controls the Rigel Plains. They’re tyrants both, and their subjects suffer terribly under their yoke. But if a pack of good-hearted invaders such as us were to take them out? Well, we might find ourselves with new support among the Rigelian masses...
Alm: Interesting...
Lukas: Granted, we run the risk of losing men we can’t afford to be without, so I’m not insisting we do this. I only offer the suggestion.
Alm: I'll think on it, Lukas. Thank you.

@Boss 
Xaizor: My name is Xaizor, and I’m afraid your path ends here. While I bear you no grudge, my master’s orders are absolute.

Xaizor: I can serve you...no longer... Forgive me...Emperor...Rudolf...

@End 
Clive: So, Alm? Have you made up your mind as to where we’re headed?
Alm: Yes, I think so.
Celica: Alm...
Alm: Huh?
Clive: What is it, Alm?
Alm: This is going to sound crazy, but I thought I heard...Celica.
Clive: Celica? The priestess girl from the castle? I’m sorry to say, I heard nothing...
"Celica": Alm... I need you, Alm...
Alm: It IS her! Where are you, Celica?!
Clive: Huh? What’s... Alm, wait!
Alm: Celica! Where are you, Celica?!
"Celica": Alm... I’m so glad you’ve come...
Alm: Celica?! What is this...? An illusion?
"Celica": Yes... Alm, I’m being held prisoner in Nuibaba’s abode.
Alm: What? Are you hurt?!
"Celica": Help me, Alm... I have faith... I know you’ll come... I’m waiting for you... I’ve always been waiting...
Alm: Wait! Celica, don’t go! Dammit! Was that really her?

Nuibaba: Eee hee hee... What next, child of fate? You slipped my grasp at the border, but now you run straight to my snare. Despite the bungling of that useless Berkut... Tsk, no matter. All will be mine soon enough. I’ll not let the likes of Jedah claim a bearer of the Brand. The power of such a soul could grant me life eternal! Eee hee... Eeeeee hee hee hee!

@Intro 
Marla: Oh, dear. Such naughty children, lashing out at Lord Duma so! You’ve earned quite the punishment...
Alm: Another witch? Listen to me—you’re being controlled! You have to fight this!
Lukas: I'm sorry, Alm. You can’t help her. Only death can break Duma’s hold over those who have offered up their souls.
Alm: No...
Marla: Hee hee...

@Boss 
Marla: Hee... I’ll sing you a lullaby... It’s time for all the good little children to go to sleep.

Marla: Oh dear... Such...stubborn children... You should...listen to...your...

@Dialogue 
Alm: I can feel an uncomfortably warm breeze pushing back at me, attended by a low rumbling. The voices of the dead, perhaps, calling from the land beyond, hungry again for life. Valentia knows no deeper pit than this, the guts of Fear Mountain.

@Narration 
An unsettling face peered down at them through the pitch black darkness. It was the legendary arcanist Nuibaba, mistress of Fear Mountain and terror to all. By offering up her soul, she had purchased the very darkest of sortilege: a single word from her lips was enough to snuff out life itself. Why did Alm go to this place, and what exactly did he hope to find upon that terrible peak?

@Intro 
Nuibaba: Eee hee hee... Welcome, warriors of the Deliverance. My doors stand open to receive you.
Alm: Are you Nuibaba? Where’s Celica?!
Nuibaba: You poor fool. There’s no one here by that name. I merely used a vision of whomever you held fast in your heart to draw you in.
Alm: So it WAS a trap!
Nuibaba: Eeeee hee hee hee! Oh, and how clumsily you’ve fallen into it! The specter of love ever draws fools such as you like butterflies to nectar. And yet, the real feast is yet to come... when I dine upon your souls!
Alm: *groans* Get ready, everyone!

@Battle
Nuibaba: Come forth, Medusa! Honor the pact you’ve sworn to me!

@Boss
Nuibaba: Come close... Let me share with you death’s embrace!

Nuibaba: Ahhh... It cannot be... I won’t be...

@Conversation 
Cleric: Nuibaba gathered young and comely girls from all across Rigel. She made sacrifices of them—fed them to monsters to preserve her own youth.

Young Woman: Ooo! You’ve met Lord Berkut? You’re so lucky. He’s amaaaaazing. Every woman in Rigel wishes they could be his. *sigh* Alas, it’s an impossible dream, now that he’s to wed Rinea...

@Recruit-Conversation 
Alm: Are you all right? Nuibaba has been dealt with, in case you’re wondering.
Tatiana: She’s gone? You mean it? Oh, thank you! I’ve been searching for my Zeke, but coming here was clearly a mistake. If you don’t mind my asking, who are you, exactly?
Alm: We’re the Deliverance.
Tatiana: Then it’s true... Zofia really HAS invaded! S-Stay back! Zeke, HELP!
Alm: Um, we just got finished saving you. You realize that, right? And we sure didn’t come all this way just to start harming innocent Rigelians. So long as we don’t meet on the field of battle, you’re no enemy of mine.
Tatiana: I’m...not? Sorry, my heart was racing a little faster than my brain there. But I can see you’re a man of his word. Please forgive me!
Alm: Er, it’s all right. I know you’ve been through a lot. And technically, we DID invade, so...
Tatiana: Well, you still seem more honorable than the troops lording over the village. ... *gasp* Oh no!
Alm: Huh?
Tatiana: [To Clive] Are you the leader of this "Deliverance"? Of course you are. You must be. Just look at you! In that case, I need your help. My lover, Zeke, is in peril!
Clive: Forgive me, milady, but I fear you stand corrected. I am not the leader of the Deliverance.
Tatiana: But you’re so tall and dashing! I thought for sure... Hmm... [To Lukas] It’s YOU, isn’t it? Yes, it must be! Witness the focused air about you!
Lukas: Heh. Wrong again, I fear. Alm here commands us.
Tatiana: What?
Alm: Uh, hey there.
Tatiana: Ack! F-forgive me! It’s just that you’re so young and... young.
Alm: Don’t worry about it. Tell us more about this “Zeke” person.
Tatiana: Ah yes! Zeke! Ezekiel! You’re on your way to Rigel Castle, right? Then you’re certain to meet Zeke on the Rigel Plains along the way. When that happens, don’t kill him! Don’t you DARE! His superior officer, Jerome, is a no-good, rotten lout. He and Nuibaba have brought immense suffering upon the locals. Zeke tried to stand up to Jerome and his wicked ways, but once I was taken captive, my love had no choice but to obey. If you tell Zeke I’m free, however, I know he’ll fight for what’s right.
Alm: All right, but this Zeke—er, Ezekiel— is a Rigelian solider, isn’t he? If he attacks us, we’ll have no choice but to answer in kind.
Tatiana: Aw, he won’t attack you. He’s a sweetie pie! Heck, he’s going to be over the moon about how you all saved me! In fact, I’m sure he’ll even come to your aid. He’s just that kind of man. *sigh*
Alm: You’re oddly...convincing. I actually believe you.
Tatiana: Of course you do! Just remember, no killing my sweet Zeke. Got it? I know you’ll get him out of his predicament. I just know it. Hey, wait a second... Why don’t I go WITH you? I just miss my love so much!
Tatiana: All right. Perhaps it’s for the best. I’ll just wait here for my love to return. It wouldn’t do him any good for me to wander off and get captured again.
Tatiana: Hmm? Yes? So you want my company? Is that it?

@Conversation 
Merchant: Oh, thank you for saving me! I’m but a humble merchant from a small village in the forest. On the way back from selling my wares, Tatarrah captured me and sent me here. I never thought I’d live to see the outside world again. But because of you, I’ll be able to see my family once more. My wife must be so worried! I had best be off. If you ever make it to our village in the forest, please stop by and say hello!

@Intro 
Soldier: Jerome, sir? My report. The Deliverance forces will reach these plains momentarily.
Jerome: Hmph. So the peasants made it here after all. Bring me Ezekiel!
Zeke: I’m here, sir. You have need of me?
Jerome: The Zofian rabble will be upon us in due time. Prepare to intercept them. ...And mind your allegiances wisely. If I smell even a whiff of betrayal, you know what will happen.
Zeke: ......

@Battle 
Tatiana: Ah, Zeke! It’s you!
Zeke: Tatiana? But how?!
Tatiana: It means you don’t have to heed another word Jerome says!
Zeke: Thank you, Tatiana. Now you have saved me as well. [to his soldiers] Men, set your sights on the target! We march on Jerome’s army! Prepare to attack!

Alm: You must be General Ezekiel.
Zeke: How do you know my name?
Alm: Tatiana told me about you.
Zeke: You know Tatiana as well?
Alm: We rescued her from Nuibaba. You should have no further cause to follow Jerome’s orders.
Zeke: I am reluctant to trust in these times. Yet, how else would you know all this? You have my thanks for saving her. Allow me to show my appreciation in deed as well as word. [to his soldiers] Men, set your sights on the target! We march on Jerome’s army! Prepare to attack!

Jerome: You dare?! I didn’t think you fool enough to betray me, Ezekiel. You know what fate awaits the girl now that—
Zeke: She’s free. And now so am I. You’ve ground the people here under heel and threatened my love. Prepare to answer for your crimes!

@Recruit-Battle 
Zeke: Forgive me—it is not my wish to fight with you. I pray you’ll bear me no grudge in turn.

Zeke: Forgive me, Tatiana... Ah... Then you’re... Good. That’s...

@Boss 
Jerome: You upstarts have brought death upon yourselves!

Jerome: H-how is this... I am a blue blood... A general! I’ll not lose to...such—

@End 
Zeke: You must be Alm. Let me thank you again for helping Tatiana.
Alm: We’re happy to help, General. I heard you were opposed to this war. Will you lend us your strength? Not a man among us wishes this conflict to last any longer than it must.
Zeke: ...... I’m afraid I cannot offer you an answer here and now. There’s a village a ways ahead. I’ll await you there. Until then.
Alm: Ah...

@Conversation
Man: Oh, look who’s here! Welcome! You don’t have to feel uncomfortable. I don’t care what land you hail from! You got rid of that rotten Jerome, and that makes you a hero around here. He and Nuibaba from up Fear Mountain have caused us nothing but suffering. And who came to our aid? Not the emperor, nor the Duma Faithful! The only one who fought for us was General Ezekiel. Doesn’t matter who he was or where he’s from—he’s a good and noble man.

Man: Keep walking, you dastards! You’ll find no welcome here! You killed General Ezekiel, you...you monsters! He only sided with those scum because they took his woman hostage! In truth, he fought this whole time to shield us from Jerome and his tyranny.

Young Man: I got no love for Zofia, but I s’pose I owe you a word’a thanks anyway. ...Eh? Why do I hate Zofia? ‘Cause I pour m’blood and sweat into workin’ this here barren land, is why! You Zofians have Mila’s blessin’ or bounty or whatever blasted thing it is. You eat yer fill without workin’ a day! Life’s just one big party for you lot... Makes me sick, it does. Pah!

Young Man: ...Hmph. What are you lot doin’ here? Emperor Rudolf’s a good man. A hero. Not that you lazy pigs over in Zofia’d know anything about it.

Old-Timer: Are you all headed to Rigel Castle? I see, I see... Perhaps that’s best for His Excellency as well. But the mountain ahead is cursed with a blight of fell beasts. Necrodragons spawn there without end, or so the travelers say. Even if you’ve the luck to elude them, eruptions often bury the path in stone.

Old-Timer: Hrmph... So you beat Jerome. A petty tyrant. Who cares for such deeds?! You’ll still never cross Mount Dragonsblight! Your proud little band will march right down a necrodragon’s gullet.

Young Woman: Ezekiel says he has no memory of his past. Tatiana found him washed up ashore one day, badly wounded. She was nursing him back to health, when... Well, you’ve seen his face. Wasn’t a fortnight before she was in love. Don’t suppose I can blame her.

Young Woman: I always loved Ezekiel, I did, though I never had the courage to tell him... Fie on you all! I hope you rot in the belly of a necrodragon!

Blacksmith: Have you ever seen a dracoshield before? They soften physical blows, mitigate magic, and can even heal you! It just so happens my family has forged these shields for generations. My grandfather even presented one to the emperor himself. You can’t make them without dragon scales, though. No sir! You need no less than four dragon scales to make a proper dracoshield. If you happen to find four and want to try the shield of shields, come see me. I’ll make you the finest dracoshield you ever did see!

Blacksmith: Great galloping gargoyles! You found enough dragon scales! Sounds like someone wants me to make a dracoshield right here and now. Well, bad news—super ultimate dracoshields don’t just HAPPEN. You can come pick yours up at a later date.

Blacksmith: ...Huh? You don’t want a dracoshield? What’s wrong with you?!

Blacksmith: Sorry, but it looks like you failed to scale. You haven’t got enough. I need four dragon scales. Come back when you’ve got ’em.

Blacksmith: Sorry, but your dracoshield isn’t ready yet. Don’t be pushy, now! Come back another day and we’ll see if I’ve finished it.

Blacksmith: A-HA! There you are! I’ve got your brand new dracoshield right here! Ready? ...Ta-daaah!

Blacksmith: If you manage to scrounge up four dragon scales, bring ’em here. I’ll make you the finest dracoshield you ever did see!

Scholarly Man: Are you familiar with a delicacy called ambrosia? It’s valuable stuff. Some even go so far as to call it the food of the gods. Some say Sage’s Hamlet in Rigel is the only place it’s made. But I’ve studied the subject for years now, and I can say beyond a doubt... that I’ve discovered the secret recipe for ambrosia and can make it right now! ...Mmmm? How about that? Is your stomach growling yet? I’m just missing a few ingredients: yogurt, Duma moss, and an orange. Bring me those three things, and I will whip up some legendary ambrosia.

Scholarly Man: Ah, you’ve brought what I need. Now watch as I cook up some food fit for the gods themselves!

Scholarly Man: Really? Are you sure? This stuff is the food of the gods, I tell you! Well, it’s your choice, I suppose. Don’t come crying to me later.

Scholarly Man: Alas, it seems you don’t have all of the ingredients yet. I need yogurt, Duma moss, and an orange. Got it?

Scholarly Man: I only need three ingredients: yogurt, Duma moss, and an orange. Bring me those three things, and I will whip up some legendary ambrosia.

@Recruit-Conversation
Zeke: We meet again, Alm.
Alm: General Ezekiel. Have you given any more consideration to what we spoke of before?
Zeke: ...... Now that I have turned my lance on Jerome, Rigel will not have me. But neither can I offer that lance to you. I still have no recolection of who I am or from whence I came.
Alm: You've lost your memory?
Zeke: I have. All I know is that I washed up on the shores of Rigel grievously wounded. I was thrown in prison and accused of being a spy or worse. But Emperor Rudolf saved me. He gave me a name and took me in. He raised me as a father would his own son. And yes, I may have betrayed him... But never would I help you do him harm.
Alm: I didn't know. I’m sorry. Forgive me for asking so much of you.
Zeke: You are not in the wrong. *gasp* Alm! By the gods!
Alm: Wh-what’s wrong?
Zeke: Where did you get that mark on your left hand?
Alm: What, this? I don’t know, actually. I've just always had it.
Zeke: Is that so? Some time ago, Emperor Rudolf gave me what I thought was odd advice. He said that if I met a man with a mark on his left hand, I was to follow him. "For that man is chosen," he said. "He shall save all of Rigel." "And with it, all of Valentia."
Alm: That's...very strange.
Zeke: I agree. But now that I have met you, I must heed my emperor’s words. I am yours to command, my lord.

Zeke: I see. I would do as my emperor commanded, but if you are not of the same mind...

Zeke: Allow me to join my strength with yours. The emperor wished for this.

@Dialogue 
Alm: ......
Gray: What's wrong, Alm? You get some bad pottage in the mess tent again?
Alm: Hmm? Oh... I was just wondering what this mark on my left hand really means.
Gray: No surprise, what with Zeke's speech about saving Valentia and all. "He shall save all of Rigel. And with it, all of Valentia." Heh. No pressure there!
Alm: No kidding...
Gray: Wait, you don’t actually BELIEVE what he said, do you?
Alm: What? No. No, I don’t harbor any delusions of grandeur. But it's true that we're fighting to save Zofia, at the very least. So I got to wondering if that wasn’t part of helping all Valentia.
Gray: Huh. Yeah, I guess that makes sense... in a messed-up kind of way. Celica has one of those too, right? That mark?
Alm: She... Yes. She does.
Gray: So maybe you guys are destined to save the world together or...whatever. I mean, It has to be fate or something that the you two of you met, right?
Alm: Fate? I don't know about that, Gray. It's a coincidence for sure, but...
Gray: Kidding! I was kidding! ...Sheesh, man. You're really starting to worry me here. If you don't laugh it off, it makes me sound like a lunatic for saying it.
Alm: Heh. Sorry. You’re right. I’m not sure about the rest of it, but me and Celica meeting really could be fate. ...I'd like to believe it is, at any rate.

Clair: Heavens, what is that infernal noise?
Alm: It sounds like... Earthquake! Everyone, take cover!

Alm: I don't believe it... That last quake cleared out some of the rocks—the road’s passable again.
Clair: Goodness! What a stroke of serendipity. Come now, Alm. Let’s hurry across before the next tremor hits.
Alm: Right...
Clair: Hmm? Is something the matter?
Alm: It feels strange, is all. A little TOO convenient. It's almost like I can feel someone's intent behind it.
Clair: An intentional rockslide? Really, Alm, you worry too much. Now chop chop! One mustn't dawdle. I'll await you on the far side.
Alm: ...... I don't like this at all. I hope you’re all right, Celica...

@Boss 
Hestia: Why do you refuse Duma’s truth? It is incomprehensible...

Hestia: Why...? I’ve done...nothing wrong...

Magnus: Honor demands I allow you to pass no further!

Magnus: I am bested. You fight...well...

@Dialogue 
Alm: What a strange place this is: a secret shrine, closed off and hidden away from the eyes of man. What a strange place this is: a secret shrine, closed off and hidden away from the eyes of man. Why was it made? And to what end?

@Intro 
Clive: This fortress is the last thing standing between us and Rigel Castle. Good news for us, but to them, it’s their last line of defense. And men always fight hardest when their backs are to the wall. Let’s take every precaution we can.
Alm: Right. We only get one chance. We’ll make it count.
Slayde: Bwa ha ha ha ha! Marvelous! Welcome, ladies and gentlemen of the Deliverance!
Alm: Slayde?!
Slayde: Indeed! And I am dearly glad to see you again, boy. You really are full of surprises. To think a mere farmboy like you would become leader of the Deliverance. Or that you would now stand poised to claim the Rigelian Empire as well! It’s the stuff of legends, this is. Simply astonishing!
Alm: Why are you here? Last I checked, you served Desaix.
Slayde: True...but that was in a former life, when I was still a knight of Zofia.
Alm: What?
Slayde: You lot ran me out of the castle thanks to that clod Desaix’s incompetence. So...I defected to Rigel! Turncoat or no, they paid good coin for a noble’s intelligence on the enemy. They were SO grateful, in fact, they appointed me to captain this fortress!
Clive: You lack even a modicum of shame, Slayde! How dare you call yourself a noble after trading away your pride!
Slayde: Pride? Ha! Pride has never filled a man’s belly or warmed him in the snow. And while we’re speaking, Clive, let me tell you this: I’ve always despised you. You and your pathetic platitudes! Pride this... Honor that... Only a naif believes that righteousness will keep a man drawing breath!
Clive: Which of us is truly naive, Slayde? You’re focused on naught but survival, yet...survival to what end? With no core belief to steel your spine, you turn tail at every shadow. Men broken by life’s unfairness who cast all principle aside will never triumph. You, Slayde, will never know victory. We will NOT lose to the likes of you.
Alm: Clive...
Slayde: Nrgh... Silence... SILENCE! This is merely the desperate barking of a cur faced down by a lion! Well? Don’t stand there! Attack! Paint the halls red with Zofian blood! Silence their lies, even if it means cutting the tongues from their mouths!

@Boss 
Slayde: Impudent whelps... You’ll regret this!

Slayde: Nrgh! Damn you... DAMN YOUUU!

Mueller: I cannot allow you any closer to His Excellency the emperor. Prepare yourself!

Mueller: Your Excellency... Forgive me...

@Dialogue 
Rudolf: ...Then the fortress has fallen.
Massena: It has, Your Excellency. I fear it’s a matter of minutes until the Deliverance reaches the castle doors.
Rudolf: Very well. We shall greet them with a sea of blades. I leave the rest to you, Massena.
Massena: As your will commands, Your Excellency.
Rudolf: Now go.
Berkut: Your Excellency, wait!
Rudolf: Berkut.
Berkut: Sire, why have you not given me leave to join the front lines? I know I failed you at the border, but all the more reason I beg for this chance!
Rudolf: A merciful leader may grant a second chance. Only a fool allows a third.
Berkut: Your Excellency!
Rudolf: My army has no place for the weak. You’ll remain here and watch in quiet.
Berkut: No... Please, have mercy, sire! YOUR EXCELLENCY! UNCLE!!!

@Intro 
Rudolf: Brave warriors of Rigel. You have fought with courage and skill at my side these long years. But the hour of reckoning is upon us. Our empire’s light is guttering. Now heed my words well! If I should fall, my final order is that you lay down your arms and surrender. I hear the young Zofian general is a man of mercy. If you have any love and loyalty for me, you’ll not waste your lives this day.
Rudolf: ......
Alm: That’s Emperor Rudolf... This is strange... I’m not sure what I’m feeling at the moment. He’s caused so much suffering, and I know I should hate him, but...I can’t. Instead he just feels... I don’t know. Familiar, somehow?
Gray: Alm! Snap out of it, will ya? This is no time for daydreaming. We’re at Rigel Castle’s doorstep, buddy. We need you focused. Now pull yourself together already! We didn’t ce this far to lose here!
Alm: A-ah, right. Sorry, Gray. All right, everyone. Let’s do this!

@Boss 
Rudolf: Come... Strike me!

%Alm,Rudolf
Alm: What’s going on? Why won’t you attack? What are you planning, Rudolf?!
Rudolf: ......

@End 
Rudolf: You’ve...done well... I’m proud of you...my son.
Alm: ...What?
Rudolf: I knew I was right to entrust you to my dearest friend.
Alm: Your friend... You mean...Mycen? What’s going on here? What are you saying?!
Rudolf: I’d thought you’d have realized by now. Your true name... Your true name is Albein Alm Rudolf. You are...my one and only son.
Alm: I... What? That can’t be true... You’re lying! Why should I believe a word you say?
Rudolf: Nnngh... Be still, Alm. I haven’t time left... to explain. But I beg you to grant me one... final favor.
Alm: You want a favor from ME?
Rudolf: Take the Divine Falchion that... sealed Mila's strength... Duma has become a thing of mindless evil. Use the blade... Destroy him... Please, my son... You must— 
Alm: No, wait! Emperor Rudolf! Were you truly my father? Then I’ve just--- Oh, gods! What have I done?! Aah... AAAAAAAUGH!

Celica: Stop! Please, no more! Alm! How has it come to this?!
Jedah: The boy will come to slay Lord Duma erelong. A fool's erand, I fear, without Falchion.
Celica: Alm is coming here? Please, you mustn't hurt him! My soul alone is all you need, yes?
Jedah: Oh? Then you will offer up your soul to Lord Duma willingly?
Celica: I will. If it saves Alm, I will surrender my soul gladly.
Jedah: (laughs) As you wish, Your Highness. Now, come with me.

@Conversation 
Soldier: L-long live His Excellency Rudolf II!

Archer: ...Welcome home, Prince Albein!

Cavalier: I was present when Emperor Rudolf marched on the Temple of Mila. I know the blade he used to seal her power away—the Divine Falchion— had long been housed in the treasure vaults beneath Duma Tower. Though I fear I do not know what became of it after...

Massena: Welcome home, Prince Albein. I am Massena, captain of Emperor Rudolf’s imperial guard. His Excellency told me everything before facing you in battle. Afterward, I gathered the remnants of his forces and awaited your arrival.
Alm: He told you...everything? Are you telling me he knew he was going to lose? That he expected to die by his own son’s hand?
Massena: ...I am afraid I cannot speak to His Excellency’s intentions. I humbly ask that you visit the throne and listen to what Sir Mycen has to say.
Alm: Mycen is here?!

Massena: Please, my prince. Visit the throne and hear what Sir Mycen has to say.

@Dialogue 
Mycen: So you’ve come, Alm.
Alm: Grandfather... What the hell is going on?! What are you doing here?! Rudolf said I was his son, and now all these people are calling me a prince!
Mycen: It’s only natural that you’re feeling confused. But there is no denying fact—you are the only son of Emperor Rudolf. Scion of the Rigelian imperial bloodline, and true heir to Rigel’s throne.
Alm: ...How could you? You knew all this time, and yet you kept it from me...! You KNEW, and you still sent me off to kill my own FATHER!
Mycen: Please remain calm, Alm. *sigh* Let me explain. ...Best I start at the very beginning. As you well know, Valentia has always been divided north from south— split between the two gods, Mila and Duma. But their involvement with mankind eventually grew too deep. When madness takes a god, man is lost. And where gods meet ruin, men die too. That is the plight Valentia now faces.
Alm: You’re saying the gods are...dying?
Mycen: I fear so. Rudolf was among the first to understand the signs. He saw Duma’s growing madness and knew it for a harbinger of ruin. But then you were born, Alm.
Alm: What does that have to do with any of this?
Mycen: You bore the Brand—sign of the hero who would rise to save Valentia. Hearing that prophecy, Rudolf knew you must be kept hidden from the Faithful. He concealed the news of your birth, and entrusted you to me in Zofia. I will never forget the pain on his face when he placed you in my arms...
Alm: ......
Mycen: That day marked a change in him. He donned the mantle of one who would destroy the old world order— one who’d free men to live by their own power, even if they hated him for it. He knew such heresy would bring forth those who wished for his death. So for that death to come at the hand of his beloved son was...a mercy. He told me himself that he could imagine no more peaceful end.
Alm: And what of my peace?
Mycen: This is not the time for mourning or self-pity, boy. Rudolf’s purpose now falls to you. The true foe you must defeat is Duma. As well as the zealots tainted by his madness who seek control of Valentia: Jedah, and his Duma Faithful. If you do not hurry, Celica’s life will also be in peril.
Alm: Oh, gods! Celica! She set out in search of Duma in order to save Mila.
Mycen: A passage beneath this castle leads to the Temple of Duma. Go, Alm. Go and finish this. Return the mad god Duma to the darkness... from whence he came.

@Narration 
His whole story was a lie. Alm’s youth... His days of training with Mycen... All were but calculations in a far-reaching plot by his lord father, Emperor Rudolf. Alm had taken his father’s life, and that sadness would stay with him always. But destiny would not permit this son of the Brand to simply walk away. Valentia lay yet in the grip of Duma— the wicked god, the War Father—as well as Alm’s dear Celica, who would become Duma’s willing servant...
/***EOF***/
@Intro 
Celica: Ah... Quiet, everyone!
Garth: Heh heh...
Celica: That must be Garth and his men. Probably best to avoid them. Let’s go around that way.
Mae: But Celica, look!
Celica: Huh?
Palla: Rgh... More of Grieth’s thugs, I take it?
Garth: Well, give the little girl a prize! Yer pretty smart for a foreign lass. In that case, might be ye also know how much coin a pair like you could fetch!
Palla: Catria! Keep your wits about you and do not leave my side!
Celica: It’s those sisters!
Mae: Aw, cripes, Celica. What do we do?!
Celica: Well, we sure can’t leave them to this rabble. Let’s go, everyone!

@Boss 
Garth: Muh? Who’re you? Bah, not like it matters. Yer just more merchandise now!

Garth:  H-how...? I’ve bought’n sold tougher’n this... Uuurrrkk...

@End 
Celica: Thank the Mother we managed to keep those sisters safe... Come now. We’ll gain nothing by lingering.
Palla: Wait! We didn’t get to properly— *sigh* And they’re gone...

@Conversation 
Woman: The path to Zofia Castle was blocked during that big earthquake that hit. Sorry to rain on your thatch, but there’s nothing for it...

@Recruit-Conversation 
Palla: Oh, good! I was hoping we’d find you. You really saved us back on the coast. We’ve managed to dig up some additional information since then. Turns out our sister Est is being held by a thief named Grieth. Your strength is beyond reproach. That much is certain... If you’re headed to Grieth’s citadel, perhaps you’d let us join you?

Palla: I hear you’re headed to Grieth’s citadel as well. Would you mind if we traveled together?

Palla: I see... A shame. Well, if your mind changes, please do let me know.

Palla: Ah, hello. Did you need something? Perhaps you changed your mind about traveling together?

Catria: Ah, there you are. I was hoping I might see you again and get a chance to thank you properly. You saved us on the Zofian coast, and we are greatly in your debt. Are you perchance headed to Grieth’s Citadel? It appears my sister Est is being held there. If such are your intentions, perhaps we could travel together.

Catria: I see my sister is traveling with you. That’s wonderful. I trust it’s all right if I accompany you as well?

Catria: I see. Well, I’ll not doubt your judgment nor your reasons.

Catria: Yes? Did you need assistance? Or perhaps you’ve decided to take me with you?

@Conversation
Lord Fugue: I’m the head of the Fugue family. Surely you’re familiar with the name? Recently, a thief stole into our home and took an heirloom—a shield. It bears the family crest, and has been handed down for generations. It’s irreplaceable, and if not retrieved, it will be a black mark on our honor. The burglar in question is in Grieth’s employ. I’m certain the Fugue Shield is languishing in his vault about now. The cur will likely sell it to a foreign, buyer, after which it will be lost forever. You’ve the look of warriors about you. Impressive, to a man! Might I enlist your help in retrieving the Fugue Shield from Grieth? You’ll be well rewarded, of course. Fugues are known for our generosity.

Lord Fugue: Our family shield! Oh, this is a sweet sight indeed. In truth, I’d nearly given up hope of seeing it again. My sincerest thanks. Please, take your promised reward.
Lord Fugue: With both shield and honor restored I must hurry home to the family estate.

Lord Fugue: Is this just a jape to you? Oh, how you twist the blade!

Lord Fugue: By the gods! This shield bears the mark of our sworn enemies, the Rion clan! Pah! The very sight of it disgusts me! Take it away!

Royal Chef: Pardon me, but I serve as chef to one of the noble houses. Or I did, until a tiny mistake provoked the ire of my employer. Now he says that if I don’t prepare the world’s finest fish, he’ll have me killed! A man mistakes salt for sugar ONCE, and now must pay with his life? Cruel! As you might expect from such a man, my employer’s tastes are quite fine. A run-of-the-mill fish won’t get me off the hook. ...Er, pardon the pun. I need to catch a legend. I need...dagon. But that’s not something you find in a fishmonger’s stall down at the market. Please aid me! My life is on the line! ...Er, pardon the pun. If there’s any way you can find a dagon fillet, let me know at once!

Royal Chef: Word is, there’s a master angler here in Zofia Harbor. But he set out to sea a while ago and has yet to return. The timing lines up with a bad storm, so I fear he may have capsized. I’m told he usually fished the waters around the Seabound Shrine.

Royal Chef: Word is, there’s a master angler here in Zofia Harbor. If anyone could reel in a dagon fillet, it would be him. If he’s not out at sea fishing, you’ll likely find him at the tavern.

Royal Chef: Ah. Yes. Well, I suppose you’ve your own business to worry about.

Royal Chef: Any chance you’ve found a dagon fillet?

Royal Chef: The color... The glow... Dagon for true! You’ve actually found it! And such a fine cut! The perfect dappling of fat! Exquisite! Surely this will satisfy even my temperamental employer. Thank you. I’m afraid this is all I have to give you in return, but I insist you take it.

Royal Chef: Please, I’m about to be gutted! ...And that is NOT a pun!

Skilled Angler: Oy, it’s you! From the Seabound Shrine! I owes you a debt, I do! If ya need anything, just go on and ask. ...... Eh? A dagon fillet? Mmmm... Dagons are fearsome beasties—closer kin to dragons than fish. Yet for its terrible look, the meat’s said to be sweet as nectar. Trouble is, their vision’s frightful good. They see yer line and steer clear. You need a line that’s strong as steel, but clear as glass. Track me down somethin’ like that, and I’ll happily dip m’pole for ya! Come find me again if ya find a line that’ll snag a dagon.

Skilled Angler: Hoo! Never thought I’d see something’ like this in all m’days! This just might make for a line that even a dagon wouldn’t see coming! I’ll put out to sea straightaway and see if the fishing gods are kind. Come find me in a couple of days. And pray for fair weather! Eh heh heh!

Skilled Angler: Are you waitin’ for me t’beg?

Skilled Angler: I needs strong, clear material for a line. Bring me that, and I just might be able to hook ya a dagon. Eh heh heh!

Skilled Angler: Well, look who it be... Howzabout ya feast yer eyes on THIS?! Landed me a dagon, I did! And all thanks t’yer magic line. As promised, here’s yer cut! Enjoy that, now! Eh heh heh heh!

Skilled Angler: Guess what? I went and landed me another dagon! Eh heh heh heh! I’m in a sharin’ mood, so why not take a cut for yerself?

@Intro 
Boey: Oh, great... Another graveyard filled with even MORE Terrors...
Mae: Oh, grow a spine already! So what if those guys sprout up like weeds? It’s perfect target practice! After this little warm-up, we can storm the Temple of Mila with spells blazin’!
Boey: Why would we want to storm the temple...?

@Conversation 
Man: That Grieth is a real piece of work. He gives the orders to every scoundrel and sneak-thief in Zofia. He’s attacked this village time and again, and taken all the young folk. There’s not a man who would stand up to him, even when the king drew breath.

Young Woman: Have you been to the Dragon Shrine, north of the village? There’s a well there whose waters are rumored to revive the dead. But alas, fearsome necrodragons stand watch there, allowing none to pass.

Old Timer: To reach the Temple of Mila, cross the valley approach and continue north. The temple’s more than just a place of worship for the goddess, you know— it also defends the sluice gate at the kingdom’s border. However, the gate opens only to members of the Zofian royal family. With His Highness Lima IV gone, the sluice may lie closed forever...

Young Man: Is it true the Deliverance has retaken Zofia Castle? I worry if so. Oh, everyone talks of chasing out Desaix and the Rigelian Empire... but soon as they have to decide the next king, you know war will come again.

@Recruit-Conversation 
Atlas: I was off fighting on the frontier until a short while ago. Came home to find my village in ruins and my brothers taken by Grieth. I want to tear that thief’s head clean off his body! ...But I can’t do it alone. Are you lot going to Grieth’s stronghold? If so, let me come and have my revenge.

Atlas: Ah. I see. Well, you have your reasons, I’m sure. Apologies for the sudden request. I’ll try my luck alone, if that’s what it takes.

Atlas: Hm? Changed your mind, did you?

@Conversation 
Fish-crazy Man: Oy! You! Ever had dried shieldfish? It’s simply GRAND, so it is! Odd-lookin’ thing, shieldfish. Big’n flat, and covered in a hard shell. Looks a bit like a shield—that’s why they named it as they did, I reckon. But if ya dry ’em in the sun, they taste like nothin’ else. I get cravings I do. Terrible cravings... But I can’t find ’em to save m’life! I’d kill for a bite’a shieldfish! ...Well, not literally, but you get my meanin’.

Fish-crazy Man: SHIELDFISH! DELICIOUS SHIELDFISH! HOW I YEARNED FOR YOUR TOUCH! Er, I mean...uh...here. Take this. You earned it!

Fish-crazy Man: Can’t blame you. I wouldn’t share mine, either! Heh heh heh.

Fish-crazy Man: You got no shieldfish! Ain’t very nice getting my hopes up like that.

Fish-crazy Man: Sure could go for some dried shieldfish right about now...

Tired Lady: Please, can you help me find my son?

Tired Lady: After losing my husband to the plague that hit our village, I fell apart. My son felt he had to help me. I tried to stop him, but it was no use. He left for the Dragon Shrine in order to find the Well of Revival. They said it can give life to the dead, so he seeks to return my husband. Though I fear I’m more like to lose a son than reclaim a husband. That shrine is a horror of a place. I won’t let my son die there. Please find him and bring him back to me! I beg of you!

Tired Lady: Did you find my son?

Tired Lady: This...this is my son’s journal! ...Oh. Oh no. You sweet, stupid boy... How many must you take, Mila? How many more will satisfy you?!

Tired Lady: Pardon me. The other day, you helped me find my...my late son. At the time, I was too overcome to thank you. Please forgive my rudeness. I’m still working through my grief. It will take time, I’m sure. But I wouldn’t even be able to do that if I didn’t know his fate for certain. I know I’m late in this, but please let me thank you for finding my son.

Tired Lady: ...Eh? It’s too much? Oh, hardly! I sold my house and land, you see. This village is full of memories. It...hurts too much to be here. I aim to wander the world and take a long, hard look at my life. Perhaps we’ll meet again somewhere. Until then, stay safe.

Lumberjack: What a mess... I’ve been a woodcutter in this village since I was old enough to hold an axe. But when Grieth’s men swept through, they stole it! ...My axe, I mean. I can’t do a lick of work without it, and I’ve got a wife and kids to feed. And don’t tell me to go buy a new axe, because I can’t afford it! No axe, no money. No money, no axe. You get my problem here?

Lumberjack: Wait a sec—you’re just GIVING me this? Sweet Duma! This is gonna turn my whole life around! You’ve got yourself a new friend, pal. Take this with my thanks!

Lumberjack: Yeah, I suppose that’s not the kind of thing you just have lying around.

Lumberjack: I’m not much of a woodcutter without an axe—and I’m broke, to boot! I need to get my hands on a new axe, and soon...

Lumberjack: Oh, hey! It’s my best friend! Here, have a look at this, pal. I tried my hand at carving a likeness of Duma with the axe you brought me. Figured maybe his blessing would help me chop through the forest, yeah? And it WORKED! When I’m holding it, I can feel strength surging through my chopping arm! The forest best watch out now that I’ve got this Duma carving! Gya hah hah!

Lumberjack: Oh hey. Look who it is! Terrors from the cemetery attacked the village a while back. Except they didn’t attack the village so much as come straight to my door. They took the Duma carving I made, turned around, and beat feet. I never should have made it. Duma must be angry I took liberties with his image! I’m terrified his punishment is only just beginning... O Duma! Forgive me!

Lumberjack: Hey, that’s the Duma carving I made! Get that awful thing away! I never want to see it again in my life!

@Boss 
Wolff: You don’t look half as scared as you ought. Don’t you value your lives? It’s time you had the fear of death put back into you!

Wolff: No... I’ll not surrender... Not like...this...

@End 
Pirate: Say, boss? I got some...uh...news. Kinda bad, like.
Grieth: ...WELL?! Don’t just stand there, idiot! Spit it out!
Pirate: The desert stronghold’s been...taken.
Grieth: WHAAAAT?! Was it Deliverance? It was, wasn’t it? Those lousy, no-good, dung-eatin’—
Pirate: Actually, it was a girl and her friends. Some kinda priestess or somethin’? Kind of an odd mix if ya ask me. A mercenary, couple’a kid mages—
Grieth: KIDS?! You’re tellin’ me that Wolff lost to a girl and some CHILDREN?! Who is she? I need information. All of it. GIMME THE GOODS!
Pirate: I got nothin’, boss, I’m sorry. All I know is what I told ya. Kid’s a priestess, yeah? ...Oh, and she had a mark on her right hand. Er, so whatta we do now, boss? Our men are sayin’ she’s coming here next! She’s gonna come here and kill—
Grieth: Shut up for a second. Did you say she has a mark on her right hand?
Pirate: Y-yeah, boss. That’s right.
Grieth: Well, I’ll be dipped in hog fat... That’s the lass Desaix was searchin’ for! That mark is proof a member of the Zofian royal family is still alive! And you say she’s headed here now? ...Heh. Haw! BWAAAAA ha ha ha ha! Looks like lady luck finally decided to let me take her to the barn dance! Working with Desaix was good business for a while, but he’s finished now. But if I serve that girl up to Rigel on a silver platter... then even if they take over all of Zofia, we’ll still be sittin’ pretty. Deen! Sonya!
Deen: You called?
Sonya: Did you need something?
Grieth: We’re expectin’ guests. Some little girl and her merry band of friends. Deen, set up in the northern desert. Sonya, you take the south. I want the girl alive. As for the rest... Well, have some fun. You earned it. ...YA GOT IT?!
Sonya: You don’t need to shout, sir. There’s nothing wrong with my hearing. If there’s nothing else, I’ll be going.
Deen: Understood. I’m off as well.
Grieth: Bah! Impudent louts. Still, I s’pose they get the job done. And once they do, I’ll have a Zofian princess in my collection. Heh heh... Ha ha ha! BWAAAA HA HA HA HA HA!

@Recruit-Conversation 
Jesse: Whew! You really saved the day. Thanks a million. Name’s Jesse, by the by. I’m just your average garden-variety merc. So I spotted this girl at the port of Zofia. Real cute, ya know? Anyway, then I hear she’s about to get sold off as a slave! You believe that? Well, I don’t let ladies get sold into slavery on my watch! No sir! So I up and chased after her, and wound up getting caught. Turns out trying to take on a group of slavers single-handed is a terrible idea. Anyway, that’s my story—what’s yours? You’re all traveling together, yeah? Looks like a real fun group. Don’t suppose you got room for one more?

Jesse: Oh yeah? Well, that’s a shame. I won’t take it personal, though. Come on back if you change your mind.

Jesse: Hm? What’s up? Decide you want to deal me in on the fun after all?

@Conversation 
Young Traveler: I’m sorry to bother you, but it seems my father has gone missing. He’s a pious man who was going on a pilgrimage to the Temple of Mila. But that was some years ago, and I’ve heard nothing from him since. When last I saw him, he was wearing his lucky red tricorn hat. Sadly, that’s the only clue I have to go on. I managed to follow his trail this far, but I fear it’s grown quite cold. He could’ve been attacked by bandits or done in by Terrors or...worse. But I’d rather know for sure than lie awake at night with such grim thoughts. Well, there’s nothing for it but to return home to my mother. Er, but if you come across a man in a red tricorn hat, tell him to hurry home. Take care.

Young Woman: Grieth didn’t become king of thieves by being a fool. He’s a shrewd one. He’s been sending Desaix bribes a’plenty to escape justice for his deeds. And his men are no better. The pirate Barth was one such, in fact. I hear there are still captives rotting away in his dungeons. Some have been there for years, poor souls... If there’s any way you can help them...

Man: Deen and Sonya are feared for their strength, even among Grieth’s men. Deen, a master of the sword, is a flinty loner of a man. And Sonya is a deadly mage. Beautiful, though, if the rumors are true. They also say she was Rigelian, originally...

@Dialogue
Celica: Jesse, you’re familiar with this area, are you not? We’re headed to Grieth’s Citadel, and the way seems perilous. Could we ask you to guide us there?
Jesse: Grieth’s Citadel?! Er, look. You seem smart and capable and all, but...I wouldn’t recommend it. His payroll’s a veritable who’s who of Zofia’s nastiest thugs. And no matter how tough you are, I don’t like those odds.
Celica: But there must be some way.
Jesse: Hrrrrmm... Maybe ask the Deliverance? They’re nuts. They might be up for it. They chased off Desaix, didn’t they? ...Which is actually pretty impressive.
Celica: The Deliverance force marches west to the border to fight the Rigelian army.
Jesse: Do they now? Well, that’s optimistic. I guess that means you’re out of luck.
Celica: *sigh*
Jesse: Aw, c’mon. Don’t give me that look! Damsel-in-distress types slay me. Just break my heart. I mean, not that you’re a damsel or anything, but... Hmm... Well, I suppose there is one thing you might try...
Celica: And what’s that?
Jesse: Deen and Sonya. Two of Grieth’s best. They’re a tough lot, but it’s not loyalty that keeps them in Grieth’s service. I don’t know the specifics, but it’s clear they’ve their own ambitions. They guard his citadel from the north and south ends of the desert. Break through one, and you’ll have a clear path to move on Grieth. Whichever you fight, the other won’t go out of their way to chase you down. ...Er, probably.
Boey: Hey, hold on...
Jesse: Like I said, going up against Grieth’s entire force at once is suicide. But knock out Deen or Sonya and focus on Grieth and his men at the citadel? Well then, you might just have yourself a chance.
Boey: And if you’re wrong and they chase us down while swearing bloody revenge?
Jesse: Yowza. Yeah, in that case, I’m guessing you’re probably dead.
Boey: The fact you’ve worked as a mercenary this long staggers the imagination.
Jesse: Aw shucks, you little flatterer! That’s sweet of you to say. Look, your ultimate goal is getting to the Temple of Mila, right? So this thing with Grieth is just a bit of...what? Community service? That’s admirable, but think long and hard before you make the trip.
Celica: ......

@Boss
Deen: Nothing personal, but I have to kill you. I promise to make it fast.

Deen: Rgh... I’ve too much left...undone...

Sonya: Naughty children. You ought never have made an enemy of Grieth. Still, this is mere business for my part. No hard feelings, I pray.

Sonya:  It seems...today is the day... my star...goes out...

@Intro 
Pirate: Grieth! Boss! That girl and her band of idiots are here!
Grieth: Grargh! What the hell are the rest of the men DOING?! I need ’em here to FIGHT!
Pirate: Um, it doesn’t look like they’re moving, boss.
Grieth: WHAT?! ...Dammit! So I’ve been betrayed, have I? Gah! Fine. Just...fine! I’ll just go out there and crush this stupid girl ALL BY MYSELF!

@Battle 
Grieth: Well, lookie here—it’s Zofia’s crown princess! Ain’t you just FANCY!
Celica: How... Who told you that?
Grieth: Well, lemme think a second... Who could it have been? You know what? It don’t matter. Fact is, I owe you my thanks. While you royals were lounging about ignoring your own kingdom, I was becoming a VERY RICH MAN! You people turned Zofia into a place where only the strong survive. Hell, now it’s the spitting image of Rigel itself, doncha think?
Celica: You may think yourself something fine... but your days as a predator are done.

@Boss 
Grieth: Oh, Yer Highness... My kingdom may fall today... but I’m gonna DRAG YOU ALL TO HELL WITH ME!

Grieth: You didn’t...win nothin’... There’s gonna be...another me... There’s always...another...me...

@Conversation 
Celica: Atlas! Did you manage to find your brothers?
Atlas: Yeah, they’re safe. Everyone’s safe. You’re our savior, m’lady! From this point on, I am yours to command. You just say the word. Now, want me to bust the skulls of any of Grieth’s men we might’a missed?
Celica: N-no, that’s... Thank you, Atlas, but I don’t think that’ll be necessary. Why don’t you go spend some time with your family instead?
Atlas: You sure? ...Well, all right. I’ll do whatever you think’s best.

Irma: I owe you thanks beyond measure for saving me. My name is Irma, and I serve at the Temple of Mila. ...Or did, I suppose. In truth, this place has been my only home for many a long year. I fear greatly what may have transpired at the temple...
Celica: So you’re an attendant to Mila? Interesting... We’re actually making our way to the temple right now.
Irma: Is that so? Then might I ask—  By the Mother! Are you...? No, you couldn’t be...
Celica: Er, I’m sorry?
Irma: Ah... F-forgive me. It’s just that you bear a striking resemblance to Lady Liprica.
Celica: Liprica? That’s...my mother’s name.
Irma: Then it’s true! You’re her! You’re Princess Anthiese! Mila be praised, you’re alive!
Celica: Are you saying you know my mother?! Please, you...you must tell me anything you can about her. I never had a chance to know her, you see...
Irma: It would be an honor, Your Highness. Where shall I begin...?
Irma: Like myself, Lady Liprica was a sister in the service of Mother Mila. But all that ended once King Lima’s royal procession arrived at the temple. Lady Liprica’s beauty caught his eye, and she was stolen away in the night. He took her to his castle and forced her to join his seraglio of countless brides. Despite the luxury, I expect life in the castle proved most difficult for her. She soon took ill, and left this world shortly after bearing Your Highness.
Celica: Mother...
Irma:  I am so very sorry, Princess Anthiese. But I would implore you to spare your tears. Lady Liprica thought only of your health and happiness until her final breath.  Lady Liprica also left something for you, Your Highness.
Celica: For me?
Irma: Aye, milady. It is a circlet that proves your royal standing. She asked that it be given to you once you were of age.
Celica: A circlet...? You can’t mean the royal crown?! Surely my mother had cause to hate the monarchy above all else?
Irma: I fear I know not what her intentions were, milady. Nor have I the means of asking now. But, Your Highness... I know a time will come when your mother’s heart grows clear to you.
Celica: ......
Irma: The circlet is stored in the temple vault. I shall make my way there now. I must tell everyone that Her Highness Anthiese has returned to us! I will await your arrival at the temple. May Mila’s blessing be upon you always.

@Recruit-Conversation 
Est: Thanks so much for saving me! My name’s Est, by the way. I was kidnapped by pirates in Archanea and brought here. I’d really like to hurry home, but... Well, it wouldn’t be right to run off before thanking you for your help. I’d like to fight with you, if you’ll have me. What do you say?

Est: Wait, you’re sure? You don’t want me to help you? I see... Well, I’ll wait around here a while in case you change your mind. Just say the word if you need me.

Est: Yes? Did you change your mind about taking me with you?

@Dialogue 
Est: Palla! Catria!
Palla: Est! Oh, I’m so glad you’re safe! Do you have any idea how much worry you’ve caused us?
Est: I’m sorry, Palla, but I... I... I was so scaaared! Catriaaa!
Catria: Wha—? Hey! Stop this at once, Est! You’re not a child anymore.
Est: B-but... But I... Can’t I be the kid sister just this once? After everything I went through?
Catria: But it’s not just “this once.” That’s the problem. You’re never anything BUT the kid sister.
Est: That is totally not true!
Palla: Enough, you two. We’re reunited for five minutes, and already you’re at each others’ throats? Honestly...
Celica: Hee hee.
Palla: Oh, Celica! I apologize for the scene my sisters caused.
Celica: Don’t be silly—I’m just glad the three of you are all right.
Palla: We wouldn’t be if you hadn’t helped us. There’s no way Catria and I could have done this by ourselves. Thank you, Celica. Truly.

@Recruit-Conversation 
Deen: You Celica?
Celica: I am. And you are...?
Deen: Deen. I worked under Grieth. The northern desert was my watch.
Celica: Ah, so you’re Deen. We owe you thanks. Had you pursued us, we couldn’t have defeated Grieth. Your restraint was much appreciated.
Deen: Heh. Quite the gamble. Fortunately, it paid off. ...You’ve got stones, little one. I like leaders with stones. What say I throw in my lot with you?

Deen: Figures. Well, I won’t force you.

Deen: You here to ask for a hand?

Sonya: My goodness. You really are but a child.
Celica: I’m sorry, who are you?
Sonya: Sonya. I assume you’ve at least heard the name?
Celica: Ah, so that’s you. We owe you thanks. Had you pursued us, we couldn’t have defeated Grieth. Your restraint was much appreciated.
Sonya: I get the feeling you knew all along that’s how I would react. Quite the clever one, aren’t you? ...It’s a bit infuriating. Still, I’ll wager your friends are seldom bored. Maybe I’ll just have to join up and see. If there’s room for one more, that is? I’m certain you won’t regret it.

Sonya: Right. All full up. Well, don’t come running back to me if you regret it later.

Sonya: You came running back after all. I told you not to do that. Hmm... I wonder if this is really such a great idea.

@Conversation 
Alessio: Ah, it’s you! Thank you again for your help with that coral fragment business. But alas, I fear I’m in deep once more, for another deal has fallen through. A sizeable one this time. Now I need to source a boatload of steel lances with all speed. With Desaix dead, my only connection on the the inside was Grieth. And I don’t have to tell you how THAT one ended. I wonder what sort of monstrous men were finally able to put Greith down? Even the Zofian Knights couldn’t touch that one in his prime! Well, whoever it was, they owe me some steel lances on the double. My client on this one is a nasty type, and my failure will be repaid in blood. I’ve scraped together as many as I can, but I’m still five short of the quota. If you have any spares lying around, I’d be happy to buy them from you. I’d even pay extra, since it’s my skin. How’s 50 silver marks apiece sound?

Alessio: My friend! Can I get you to open your heart and part with any steel lances? Ah, you’re a life saver. Literally! Take this, with my compliments.

Alessio: You’re killing me. Literally!

Alessio: I’m still short of steel lances, so if you come across any, I’ll buy them!

Alessio: Whew! That should be enough lances to save my poor hide. Thanks to you, it’s looking like I’ll keep my head AND turn a tidy profit. For now, though, I must rush these to my client. Take care!

Alessio: Ah, it’s you. So in a twist, my angry client doesn’t need steel lances anymore. However, he was still furious I didn’t get the order together in time. DANGEROUS furious, if you please. So I’m going into hiding for a bit.

@Intro 
Celica: At last, the valley approach. Cross this, and we’ll finally reach the Earth Mother’s temple. Take heart, everyone. We’re nearly there.
Blake: Aye, but are you?
Celica: Who— Oh, by the Mother! What are Rigelian forces doing all the way out here?
Blake: ray think on it for a moment. I’m sure the answer will come to you.
Celica: No. No, that can’t...
Blake: You’re a priestess, aye? Other of your kind have tried to cross this valley and seek Mila’s blessing... but nary a one of them have completed the journey in one piece. Ignorance is a pitiable thing, aye, so it is. Doubly so when it’s the very Mother who’s responsible for your suffering...
Celica: What is that supposed to mean?
Blake: Why waste time explaining when you’re about to be dead like all the rest?!

@Boss 
Blake: What are you waiting for? Soon you’ll all serve as scabbards for my shadow sword!

Blake: Damn... You’re stronger than you look... Shame you’re too late... Mila is...already...

@End 
Mae: Dangit, I hate it when they die right before they say something important! What do you think, Celica? What beans was he about to spill there?
Celica: I don’t know. But whatever it was, I don’t like it. We must hurry to the temple.

@Conversation 
Palla: Where are you going? That’s not the way to Grieth’s citadel. If you insist on heading in that direction, I’ll excuse myself.

Catria: You’re not going to Grieth’s citadel? Then I’m afraid our paths part here. Farewell.

Atlas: Hey, that isn’t the way to Grieth! I don’t have time for detours. If you’re taking the long way, our deal’s off.

@Dialogue 
Celica: What a strange place... Clean, but in the sort of way that comes from being devoid of all life. Hostile to it. That sound in the distance... Waves against a shore? I remember as a child hearing it said that somewhere in Zofia a sea spans the gap between the living world and the dead.

@Narration 
At last, Celica’s band had reached the Temple of Mila. But what they found there was not the grand splendor of yore, but instead a twisted shadow of it.

@Intro 
Celica: That’s...the Rigelian Army! Has the temple already fallen to the Rigelians?

Boey: What have they done to the Mother? You don’t think...

Celica: We need to confirm her safety immediately. Everyone, infiltrate the temple as quickly as possible!

@Battle 
Mikhail: Heh heh heh...
Celica: Who are you?
Mikhail: I am Mikhail, cantor of the Duma Faithful. I have come to teach Duma’s greatness to the fools who cling to Mila’s lies. Now, rue your ignorance from inside the bellies of my gargoyles!
Celica: ...Take care, everyone. He’s a cantor—he’s likely to summon forth some manner of terrible beast. Stick close and watch each other’s backs above all else.

@Boss 
Mikhail: Hmph... Ignorant, slothful heathens. Serving as food for my beasts is an honor greater than you deserve!

Mikhail: Heh... Killing me changes not your fate... It changes...nothing... Heh heh heeeeeh...

@End 
Celica: We’ve won. ...Somehow.
Mae: Yeah, but look at the temple. It’s in shambles! I always thought it would be crazy beautiful, you know? I mean, Mila can’t ACTUALLY live in a place like this, right?
Celica: I don’t know. Let’s go see for ourselves. We must discover exactly what came to pass in this place.

@Dialogue 
Saber: ...There ain't no one here. Where's this Earth Mother of yours hiding, lass?
Celica: I don't understand... Why isn't she here? She's supposed to be here!
Irma: Princess Anthiese!
Celica: Irma! Tell me what happened.
Irma: I beg forgiveness, Your Highness. I had no idea the temple fell to the empire while I was prisoner. They took Mila...and Your Highness's circlet as well. It's unthinkable. They're no knights— only blasphemers and thieves!
Celica: The Rigelians hold Mila captive?! You're certain of this?
Irma: I am, Your Highness. Emperor Rudolf led the charge himself. Sealed her powers and took her away. To where, I fear I know not.
Celica: Rudolf himself...

@Cutscene 
Cleric 1: Quickly!
Cleric 2: Mother Mila! Intruders!
Cleric 2: Mother Mila, you must save us!
Cleric 1: Mother, please!
Mila: This is Zofian soil. The Rigelian Emperor would do well to state his intentions.
Mila: The Kingsfang...
Rudolf: The Mother may deduce my intentions... from this blade; you know what it signifies.
Mila: Indeed! [stands up from her chair] It means... you are in violation of the Accord!
Mila: Damn you, DUMA!!!!!!

@Dialogue 
Saber: Now, hold on just a tick. We get to the temple and everything's taken care of. That was the deal.
Boey: Unfortunately, none of us expected the Mother to have stepped out. Nothing like this has ever happened before.
Mae: Well, I guess now we know why the soil’s gone barren. It’s been cut off from Mila’s bounty.
Boey: ...... What do we do now, milady?
Celica: The only thing we can. We find the Mother and bring her back.
Boey: Uh, please take this as kindly as possible, milady, but...are you MAD?! How exactly do we "bring her back"? And from where?!
Celica: I don"t know. But if the Rigelian Army took her, she’ll be somewhere in the empire. And since we’ve already come to the border... Well, we might as well continue into Rigel.
Boey: Hold on just a moment. You're saying we INVADE Rigel? This isn't a motley band of pirates or thieves—it's an entire empire of them! We should all take a step back and consider our opti—
Celica: No amount of thinking will change the situation. Come, Boey. This isn't the first time we've faced hopeless odds. And when people told us to give up, did we run? We need to trust in our abilities. We've come this far for a reason. And that reason is restoring Mila to her rightful place. She's still the only one who can save the world from this...chaos.
Masked Knight: Nay, she isn't.
Celica: Hmm?
Masked Knight: ......
Celica: Well? Go on. Please don't leave us in suspense.
Masked Knight: Mila cannot save this world. But you can...Princess Anthiese.
Celica: Ah! How did you—
Masked Knight: I bear you a gift.
Irma: Lady Liprica's circlet!
Celica: What? How is it that you possess this?
Masked Knight: A question for another time. Are you prepared to accept it, Princess?
Celica: How do you mean?
Masked Knight: This is no mere memento of your mother. It is a crown—and accepting it is a kind of coronation. As Princess of Zofia, are you prepared to wear this and ascend the throne?
Celica: I... I'm afraid I know little of kingdoms or the scope of rule. But I have people I wish to protect. Both here and elsewhere. I wish for this by my will alone. For my own happiness. Is that resolve enough?
Masked Knight: It is indeed.
Masked Knight: Princess Anthiese, this crown is now yours to bear.
Celica: I accept it willingly.

Mae: Wow, Celica... You look so beautiful!
Boey: It’s not Celica anymore, dummy. [To Celica] Isn’t that right, Princess Anthiese? Er, Your Highness?! ...Uh, ma'am?
Celica: Hee hee. Celica is just fine, you two. [To everyone] Though from this day on, I will no longer conceal my identity. I expect that will bring even more hardship than we've faced till now. But I hope I can still count on you all.
Saber: Yeah, all right. Guess I'll go along and swear fealty. It suits you, lass. Or should I say "Princess Anthiese." Anyway, our loyalty belongs to you, for now and always.
Celica: Thank you all. Truly.
Masked Knight: Mila was taken by Jedah, priest of the Duma Faithful. They’re keeping her in Duma Tower, the seat of their foul cult.
Celica: Then that’s where we must go.
Masked Knight: If you’re headed into Rigel, seek a man called Halcyon in Sage's Hamlet. He is an able soul, and will mostlike assist you however he can.
Celica: I will seek him out. Thank you.
Masked Knight: ......
Boey: Surprisingly enough, I think I'm starting to get used to him.
Celica: He's not a bad sort—and he clearly cares about my well-being. I can't really ask for more in such times. And yet, he's not without his mystery... I get a strange sense of nostalgia when I'm near him, though I've no clue why.

@Conversation 
Cleric: Thank you for your kind aid, masters. But I’m afraid there’s nothing left here now...

Cleric: The lands north of the temple are ruled by a man called Dolth. As an archcantor of the Duma Faithful, he summons necrodragons to his aid. It’s said all who trespass on his land become fodder for the arisen beasts...

Woman: Only one of Zofia’s royal bloodline can open the temple’s sluice gate. With His Highness Lima IV deceased, who is left to take his place? What’s more, I hear the western gate has been occupied by Rigelian forces. At this rate, Zofia is at risk of a flood the likes of which we’ve never seen.

Saint: You wish to know what happened here? Beg pardon, but I fear I cannot be the one to tell you. Irma, one of our longest-serving sisters, was taken prisoner. Even now, that black dog Grieth holds her in his citadel. Alas, there are things I can speak of only with her leave.

Saint: Rudolf used the Divine Falchion to seal Mila’s powers before taking her. A treasure given him by the wicked god Duma, no doubt. Aye, finding Mila may just be a matter of reaching Duma Tower. But Duma himself can only be slain by Falchion’s edge.

Priestess: Someone at the castle said that when Lady Liprica first held you in her arms, she swore she would never let you stand before Mila. What do you suppose she might have meant by that?

Old Timer: Eh? Who are you s’posed to be? ...Me? I’m the one what guards this here sluice gate. ...How’s that? You want me to open it? Bah! I won’t do nothin’ of the sort! The gate opens for Zofian royal blood, not some random whippersnappers! Go on—shout orders at an old man. Won’t change my mind none!

Old Timer: By the Mother! That circlet! Symbol of the Zofian throne, it is! Then you must be the missing Princess Anthiese! I thought I’d never have the pleasure, Your Highness. You must have come to inquire about this here sluice gate, eh? ...Well, of COURSE I can open it! All is as Your Highness desires.

Old Timer: Er, one small issue, Your Highness. Openin’ this here gate isn’t enough what to let water flow freely. You also have to open the western gate.
Celica: The western sluice gate, you say? That won’t be a problem.
Old Timer: Oh? Then you’ve news from the west?
Celica: Not exactly—but I can’t imagine Alm would let this situation continue. He’ll see the gate opened. I’m sure of it. ...Won’t you, Alm?
/***EOF***/
@Dialogue
Berkut: It’s not possible... Alm is the emperor’s true son? Which makes him the rightful successor to the imperial throne. All this time... All the effort! What has it all been for?! ...No. It isn’t true. It can’t be. I refuse to believe it. Nothing but lies... Lies, lies, lies, lies, LIES! [notices an erupting flame] Is that...an altar? How did I get here? What’s happening?
Duma's voice: Heed me...
Berkut: Who are y—
Duma's voice: Heed me, you who thirst for power... Call to me. Accept me unto your soul.
Berkut: That voice... Duma? Is it really you?
Duma's voice: (sighs which displayed as "......")
Berkut: What?
Rinea: [offscreen] Lord Berkut!
Berkut: Rinea...
Rinea: I’ve been looking all over for you. This is the last place I would have expected to find you. You always hated the Faithful, after all.
Berkut: This is true... But then I had the throne snatched from under me by some magical heir. Plying the gods’ mercies is what men do in hopeless situations, is it not?
Rinea: I didn’t mean-- Forgive me. I shouldn’t have said anything.
Berkut: (panting desperately which displayed as "......")
Rinea: Please don’t despair so. Alm seems a kind and generous man. I’m certain he’ll treat you fair.
Berkut: And I’m to be content with that?!
Rinea: Ah!
Berkut: I wanted to BEAT him, Rinea! To dispatch him and claim the throne! I wanted to make you my empress, and hold all Valentia in our palms together! But what of those dreams now?! Even Rigel alone is now forever beyond my grasp. So I’m to live in this Alm’s shadow? Throw myself upon his mercy?! I would sooner an honorable death at the executioner’s blade!
Rinea: Berkut, you mustn’t say such things! I never-- The truth is, I never wanted to be empress.
Berkut: *gasp* ...What?
Rinea: To stand at your side is all I’ve ever desired. I don’t care if you’re the emperor or a swineherd so long as we-- Berkut?
Berkut: (in shock and sadness which displayed as "...") You too, Rinea?
Rinea: What?
Berkut: Were you laughing along with them? Rudolf, Massena, and all the rest? Watching me toil away while you knew I would never become emperor?! Was every kind word part of the act?! EVERY SMILE AN ACT OF PITY?!
Rinea: Berkut, you’re frightening me!
Berkut: Duma! O ancient god! I call out to you now! Grant me the power to set this land to ruin... for good and all! Take of me what price you will! I care not anymore!
Rinea: Eeek!

@Cutscene
Fernand: Lord Berkut! Lord Berkut...?
Fernand: Wh-Who are you? What have you done to Lady Rinea?

@Dialogue 
Alm: Grandfather, what’s this door?
Mycen: It leads to the altar beneath Duma Tower. But know that it is a path not easily returned from. Prepare well before you enter.

@Conversation 
Massena: A moment, Prince Albein? I ask that you show Lord Berkut compassion. He weighed heavy on Emperor Rudolf’s mind for many years. The emperor knew that keeping the boy in ignorance could only bring him pain. And yet, the prospect of your being discovered was too great a risk. Still, Berkut was his nephew, and the same age as the son he parted with. So I beg leniency of you, if only to respect Emperor Rudolf’s wishes.

Mycen: It leads to the altar beneath Duma Tower. But know that it is a path not easily returned from.

@Dialogue 
Saber: Blast it all! This place is crawling with Terrors! So much for “begone to wherever you will,” you damn useless priest!
Boey: And what is that supposed to mean? You’re not actually thinking of leaving Celica in there and running away?!
Saber: Did you hear me say anything about running away? Gimme some credit here, you little snot!
Conrad: Stop flapping your jaws and focus on the fight! I’d prefer not to die here, if it’s all the same to you two fools!

Alm: Whatever lies at the end of these corridors possesses a frightful aura— it sets the hairs on the back of my neck on end. The lord of this temple awaits... and here I am, terrified of him. But we must press on, if we are to put an end to this long war.

Alm: Hold up, everyone.
Clive: What is it, Alm?
Alm: Someone’s coming. It’s...Fernand?!
Clive: What?
Fernand: That voice... Clive?
Clive: Fernand!
Clive: Gods, what’s happened to you?
Fernand: Spare me your pity. I’ve none to blame for this but myself... Such trivialities matter not at this point. But you... You made it here. Then you truly intend to slay Duma?
Clive: We do, for it was Emperor Rudolf’s dying request.
Fernand: I see... Then he must have known of Duma’s madness.
Clive: Duma is mad?
Fernand: Oh yes... Duma is a god no longer. Merely an incarnation of the lust for power... ...You there. Alm.
Alm: Yeah, that’s me.
Fernand: Listen well... You must beware of Berkut. He-- He’s no longer... ...Hngh!
Alm: Fernand!
Fernand: Please, Alm... Stop Duma. I know I’ve no right to...ask anything of you... But I beg it of you regardless... You’re the only one who can end this. Let no one else be tainted by his madness. Let this tragedy end.
Alm: I will. I swear I will lay Duma to rest.
Fernand: Then I leave it...to you... Ngh!
Clive: Fernand! Are you all right?
Fernand: Haah...ha ha... Strange, isn’t it...? Me, begging boons of you...
Clive: Not in the least. I still count myself among your friends.
Fernand: You always were...too nice for your own good. Always so...quick to pardon me... Along the way, I...I forgot how to ask for forgiveness...
Clive: Fernand, please—
Fernand: I knew. I always knew. None of my misfortunes were anyone else’s fault... Yet if the world is rotten, then who permitted it to be so? It’s me...and no one else. I took anger better aimed at myself and turned it on...the defenseless masses. I’ve failed my duty as a nobleman...
Clive: Enough, Fernand. You’ve suffered enough. You needn’t flog yourself any further.
Fernand: Good... I am...rather tired. Tired of despair... Tired of rage... But Clive...I’m glad I got to see you one last time. You were right... You chose the right king. You always were the...friend I was... proudest to— ......
Clive: ...Fernand? Fernand, no. Don’t do this. Look at me, Fernand! ...Fernand!
Clair: I simply won’t accept this, Fernand! I insist you wake up this instant! We’re all returning to Zofia together! ...Fernand? Fernand, say something!
Clive: He’s gone, Clair. ...He's gone.
Clair: No... Oh, Fernand... *sob*
Alm: Are you two going to be all right?
Clive: ...Yes. Grief will have its day, but it will not be this one. Right now, let us do what we must. Lead the way, Alm.
Alm: All right. Fernand... I wish I could have fought beside you in the army you created. At least now your fight is over. ...Farewell.

Alm: That statue... Mila? Is that really the Earth Mother?
Lukas: But how could the goddess have been turned to stone? Only the sacred blade can seal a divine dragon’s power. ...Look there. The blade protruding from her forehead must be Falchion. But given that...
Celica: ...Alm?! Alm, is that you?
Alm: Celica! You’re safe. Oh. I’m so glad. ...Wait, are you alone? Where are the others?
Celica: ......
Jedah: Ahh... So this is Alm.
Alm: Who are you?
Jedah: My name is Jedah. I must thank you for disposing of Emperor Rudolf.
Alm: Well then, Jedah. Enjoy your last moments—I’m here to put an end to you AND Duma. I’ll see Zofia restored to Celica!
Celica: Alm, you can’t. You mustn’t!
Alm: What? Why not?
Celica: If Duma is gone, Rigel’s lands will turn as barren as Zofia’s have. Even more people will starve.
Alm: But Celica, we can’t let—
Celica: And even if you wanted to stop Duma, you can’t. Nothing can stop him now. Mila has chosen to seal Falchion away with her.
Alm: What?! But then...all this fighting. What was it even for? F-Father!
Celica: Alm...
Jedah: (laughs maniacally) Alm and Anthiese, you stand at the pinnacle of your respective kingdoms. The hour is come for the world of man to return to the gods’ control! It is the dawn of an age of fear and chaos, cradled in Duma’s shadow!
Alm: We’ll never let that happen.
Jedah: Rejoice, Anthiese, for you have the honor of serving as its cornerstone!
Alm: Celica? What is he talking about?
Celica: I’m sorry, Alm... This is the only way. There’s no other choice...
Jedah: The girl will offer up her soul to quell the madness in Duma’s heart. She does so for the sake of Rigel and Zofia’s people both.
Alm: What? No! Celica, you can’t! Tell me he’s lying!
Celica: I’m sorry, Alm...
Jedah: Do not think me a monster. I shall grant you the time for a farewell. But be quick about it!
Alm: Celica!
Celica: I’m so sorry. Please forgive me.
Alm: This is crazy! You can’t do this! I’m going to get you out of here. Just hold on!
Celica: You don’t understand, Alm. I came here knowing what awaited me.
Alm: What?
Celica: Back on the island, I had a dream. A dream where something terrible happened to you. So I decided to petition Mila for the strength to protect you. Yet for all my travels, you’ve still faced terrible danger. And you were even forced to end your own father’s life. ...I’d seen it all. I knew it was coming, but I couldn’t change a thing. I failed to keep you safe, Alm!
Alm: That’s not... Celica, none of what’s happened is your fault. You’re not to blame for any of it!
Celica: But I won’t lose you... I won’t let any of you die! I don’t want you to fight Duma. I don’t want anyone to be hurt or killed. That’s my only desire in this life.
Alm: Celica!
Celica: And this is the only means I have of ensuring that comes to pass. So again, Alm, I’m sorry. I wish it could have been different. I always have. I wish I could have gone home to the village and lived there with you.
Alm: Celica, please wait! CELICA!
Alm: ......
Clair: Alm? I don’t wish to be vulgar, but... Well, what is the proper course of action for us now? Emperor Rudolf bade us defeat Duma, but Princess Anthiese asked us not to. Have we come this far simply to reach an impasse and accept it?
Lukas: One thing seems abundantly clear as things now stand: The chances of Zofia’s recovery are nearly extinguished. With Mila in her current state, there is little hope of change.
Tobin: No... But Celica is going to take care of Mila AND Duma for us, right?
Gray: Are you serious, Tobin?! You’re going to just sit around on your butt and let Celica die for us?!
Tobin: What? N-no! I don’t want that any more than you do! But what other choice do we have? There’s nothing left we CAN do!
Gray: ......
Alm: I’m not giving up.
Tobin: Huh?
Alm: I’m not giving up on her. Every part of me—every fiber of my being—says this is wrong. So we’re going to take down Duma and bring Celica home safe!
Tobin: Sure, that all sounds fine and well. But how do we do that, exactly?
Clive: Consider your position, Alm. You’re no longer just the leader of the Deliverance. You are to be Rigel’s next emperor. You must set your personal feelings aside, no matter how difficult it may be. All of Valentia depends on you now. That must be what steers your decision.
Alm: Fine. Then I decide to follow the will of the previous emperor, Rudolf.
Clive: Alm!
Alm: Oh, come on! What’s wrong with personal feelings?! All of you fought this far because you hold some kind of hope for the world. It’s man’s individual hopes and fears that shape the world. That drive it. And that’s how it SHOULD be. I truly believe that. Should we let the world crumble on a god’s whim? Or his absence?
Clive: You’re right, of course, but...
Alm: I don’t want to lose anyone else I care about. I don’t want to see anyone else lost because of Duma. Don’t you feel the same, Clive?
Clive: ...... Even if we escape from Duma’s control, a starving people can know no peace. Villains and thieves will arise to feed on the weakest and most vulnerable. Are you prepared to inflict that upon the world?
Alm: I will dedicate my life as emperor to ensuring such a thing doesn’t happen. And yes, I know as well as anyone that there will be losses along the way. I think I’ve learned that much by now... But when I think of the next thousand years, I don’t want this. I want to leave behind a world where we shape our lives by our own hands. Where we make our own mistakes and fix them—as many times as necessary. That’s a world worthy of a future.
Clive: ...So be it. If you have the determination to see it through, I’ll not object. I am yours to command, Your Excellency.
Gray: Count me in! I’m not living my life bowing to Duma and his little idiots. I’ll take going hungry over that any day of the week.
Tobin: I... I’m just not sure.
Gray: Oh, quit your whining and hop on board already!
Tobin: If it were just me I would, but I have little brothers and sisters to think of.
Lukas: I will gladly take up a trowel and work the land with them.
Tobin: Wai—but you’re a noble, Lukas!
Lukas: Such things will mean precious little in the world ahead of us. Myself, I refuse to be controlled by Duma or go hungry. If it means working the barren earth, then I shall do just that.
Clair: And you won’t do it alone! In truth, I’ve always been curious about farming. I’m sure we can reap or sow or... whatever it is enough to stay alive. Though I admit, I think all this talk of doom and gloom is entirely premature.
Alm: This is great, guys. Count me in, too. I’m pretty handy with a plow, actually. I’ll show you guys how it’s done!
Clive: An emperor plowing the fields? I never thought I’d see the day.
Alm: Huh?!
Alm: Mila’s statue is glowing...
Clive: What’s going on here? Wasn’t she sealed away?
Alm: She... She’s calling me...
Clive: Alm?
Alm: Let’s go. Mila is calling to me—we might still be able to pull this off. We have to find a way to the altar!

Celica: ....
Jedah: It is time, Anthiese. Lord Duma is waiting.
Celica: Not yet. Not before you’ve released Mila. That was the arrangement.
Jedah: I’m afraid that what you ask is beyond my ability. Mila has sealed Falchion herself. We mortals have no say in the matter.
Celica: You-- You lied to me!
Jedah: If you are displeased, Princess, I suggest you point your ire at Mila. Lay blame upon the merciless goddess who forsook her Zofian children!
Celica: Mila! No... How could you?!
Jedah: Cease your lamentations and come along, girl! I’ll send the boy to you shortly. That I can promise.
Celica: No, not Alm! You swore to leave him alone!
Jedah: Keh heh heh... How hopeless a fool can you be? [to Duma] Rejoice, Lord Duma! I have brought the Brand-bearer who threatens your order. Take her soul unto you and feast!
Celica: No! Stop! Let me go! AAAAALM!
Jedah: Ohh... Such potent energy! Bwaaaa ha ha ha! My Lord Duma is PLEASED! You needn’t wait much longer. I shall offer up the other Brand-bearer’s soul to you presently!
Jedah: Anthiese, I declare you reborn as Duma’s faithful pawn. Now go. Fall into the darkest depths and rot with Mila below!

@Intro 
Alm: There... It’s him!
Berkut: Heh... Heh heh ha ha ha... You kept me waiting, Alm! Or should I say...Your Excellency? Perhaps Emperor Rudolf II of Rigel?
Alm: Berkut, listen to—
Berkut: Tell me, how does it feel to possess both Zofia and Rigel? I imagine it’s wonderful, though it’s a sensation I’ll never know.
Alm: This isn’t a conquest for me. I have no illusions the people of Rigel will suddenly welcome me as their ruler. But my father placed this land in my care, and I’ll do anything for it. Whatever it takes to keep Valentia’s people safe.
Berkut: ......
Alm: The path ahead is a difficult one for us all. So help us, Berkut. Lend us your strength! Rigel’s people trust and love you far more than me. You and I are cousins, after all. Family. I didn’t think I had any family in this world, and yet, here you are. I know we can be close friends as well. Let’s work together, Berkut. Put all we have toward ensuring all Valentia is—
Berkut: Silence.
Alm: Um...what?
Berkut: Listen to you, offering mercy and trite platitudes from on high. Work together? Us? Don’t make me laugh. Strength isn’t lent, it’s taken! Pried from the grip of your dead foes!
Alm: What the...
Clive: So this is what Fernand warned us about. Alm, Berkut has taken in Duma’s power. He’s no longer the man we knew!
Alm: No!
Berkut: Ah, my beloved Rinea... Beautiful, isn’t she?
Alm: Oh gods... You offered the woman you love up to Duma?!
Berkut: ......
Alm: How could you?! What’s the point of power if you have nothing left to protect?!
Berkut: I finally realized something. Power won’t betray me. Power won’t deceive me. Blood ties? Years of life lived together? All meaningless. The only thing in the world a man can rely on is his own strength!
Alm: Years of... Are you accusing my father of betraying you? You’re wrong! He loved you! He worried about you to the last! You knew him so much better than I did. How can you not see that?
Berkut: SILENCE! I’m tired of listening to your pretty little lies. [to Rinea] It’s time, Rinea. Come with me. We’ll hold our wedding atop his funeral!
Alm: Berkut!

@Boss 
Berkut: You... You took...everything from me. You will SUFFER for what you’ve done!

Berkut: Graugh!

@End 
Berkut: Nnngh...
Alm: Why, Berkut? To have finally found family after all this time... Why did it come to this?!
Berkut: Heh... I have no family...nor do I want for one. Now stop talking and finish this. End me, and you can stand alone as inheritor of Rigel’s royal blood.
Alm: I never wanted that! Don’t you get it? I’ve spent enough of my life alone!
Rinea's voice: My Lord Berkut...
Berkut: ...Rinea? Rinea, is that really you?
Rinea: Dear, proud Berkut... Even without crown or throne or castle... You were ever my emperor. A just, right, and noble man...
Berkut: Rinea...
Rinea: You were born to lead... This just wasn’t your empire. So come with me now. Let us find our empire together. If you’ll still take me for your empress?
Berkut: You’re right... You were always right. The moment I turned to a power beyond myself, the man you loved was dead. Rinea, forgive me... If you’ll have me, I’d be honored to...set out with you...
Alm: Berkut!
Berkut: Is that you, Alm...? Here...take this.
Alm: A ring?
Berkut: A memento...of my mother... Let it be of some use... ...Ngh!
Alm: Berkut, no! Please... I don’t want to be alone again! Help me rebuild Rigel! Tell me about my father!
Berkut: You’re not...a child anymore... Alm... You must...make Valentia a land not... of gods...but of men... A world where people...never again... are corrupted by divine power... You can do it... I know...you...
Alm: Berkut! Berkut... Why? Someone please tell me... I never got to know you... or my father... 

@Dialogue 
Alm: What is this place?
Clair: Why, it’s a treasure vault, of course! ...Isn’t that obvious? Mmm? What’s this say? “These doors bar all save those of royal blood.”
Alm: The royal treasury... This is where Falchion was supposed to be stored.
Clair: So we’ve been told, yes. Though I believe it found a new home in Mila’s skull. One shudders to think of it. Regardless, we’ve no business here.
Gray: You sure about that? I doubt Falchion’s the only trinket tucked away in there. Who knows what might be left? Gold? Jewels? Magical doodads? Whatcha think, Alm?
Alm: Maybe so...
Alm: ...Huh?! The Brand... It’s glowing.
Gray: Alm? You okay there, buddy?
Alm: I’m feeling something...strange. I need to take a look.
Gray: Take a look at what? ...Alm? Uh, Alm? Hey, where you going?!
Gray: Waugh! What in the...? Oh come on! I can’t get past!
Clair: It appears the vault really does bar all but the royal family. How cheeky! But oh dear, I do hope Alm will be all right on his own.

Alm: That’s... What are Mila and Falchion doing here? And what the heck happened?!
Alm: *gasps* Celica! You're all right!
Alm: Nraugh! Celica?! Celica, what are you doing?! It’s me!
Celica: (growls meancingly, displayed as "......")
Alm: Celica...?
Jedah: Keh heh heh... Your words can’t reach her, boy.
Alm: Jedah!
Jedah: The girl has already offered up her soul to Lord Duma. What you see now is a husk. A witch. A puppet loyal to the dark god’s will!
Alm: No... NO! Celica, please! You have to wake up!
Jedah: Go, witch. Offer up your fellow Brand-bearer’s soul to your new master! Ah, the sight of fate’s twin children fighting to the death... How marvelous! A reenactment of Duma and Mila’s struggles from legend!

@Cutscene 
Alm: Celica, don’t do this!
Celica: Alm...please... Listen, Alm... You have to...stop me before I kill you! You know what you have to do! Alm! Do it now! KILL ME!
Alm: Are you crazy? You know I can’t do that!
Mila's voice: Hear me, bearer of Duma’s Brand.
Mila's voice: Grasp Falchion now in your hand.
Jedah: What’s this? What is the boy doing?
Jedah: Impossible! No one should be able to unbind that blade!
Mila's voice: Trust in Falchion.
Alm: Gods, no...
Alm: Don’t leave me, Celica... You can’t!
Alm: Celica? Celica! Say something, please!
Alm: CELICAAA!
Celica: ...Alm?
Alm: Celica...

@Dialogue 
Alm: Celica! Oh, Celica, thank goodness you’re okay...! But... how?
Celica: Ha... I don’t know either. But I heard a voice. A very... kind voice. It said everything would be all right, and to have faith in Falchion. [noticing something] Alm, look, what is that?
Mila's voice: Alm... Anthiese. Children of fate, bearers of the Brand...
Alm: That voice!
Mila: I am Mila. Your kind call me “goddess”. Together with my brother Duma, I shaped this land.
Alm: Earth Mother!
Mila: Some have called me by that name... But no such power remains within me.
Alm: What?
Mila: See well Falchion, which you now hold. It was carved from the fang of Naga, ruler of dragons, to sever the gods. For Naga knew there was but a creeping madness waiting at eternity’s end. It is a ruin all dragons share. And the only end is one of total destruction. Thus it was that Naga bestowed Falchion upon Duma. She did so to prepare for the day our madness would drive the land to ruin, that the people might have a means to destroy us. That Falchion might become the fangs they lack...and the hope they deserve. And yet, in my foolishness, I sealed the blade away. I did it to protect my brother... I loved my brother, even as we loved mankind. Where we strayed, I cannot remember.
Alm: Mila...
Mila: Alm, Anthiese, children of fate... You have overcome much to reach me here, and I thank you both. You have shown me the strength possessed by mankind. Perhaps men have long been walking on their own without our aid. Perhaps I simply refused to see it. And alas, Duma was no different. I entrust Falchion to your care. I pray you will use it to free my brother... from the depths of his pain.
Celica: Mila!
Alm: ...Let’s go, Celica. We have to save Duma, for her sake and ours.
Celica: Alm, I...
Alm: Listen, Celica. I know you sacrificed your own life to protect me and the others. But I never wanted that. I couldn’t ever be happy in a world you died to create!
Celica: Oh, Alm... I’m sorry! I’m so, so sorry!
Alm: Don’t apologize. Just know that I need you, all right? Without your wisdom, all I know how to do is fight whatever’s in front of me. So please... Will you fight with me? Believe in me. Believe in US. Believe in our combined strength!
Celica: I do. It’s as Mila said... We’ve had the strength to live and fight for our world this whole time. I lost faith in that somewhere along the way... But right now, it seems the most obvious thing in the world. I trust in mankind like I trust in you, Alm. Absolutely, and without hesitation.
Alm: I feel the same, Celica. This isn’t where things end for us. Even without gods, this world has a long and prosperous future ahead of it. Now let’s go claim that future together!

Celica: Let’s be ready for anything.

@Intro 
Mae: Celica! That’s really you, right?!
Celica: Mae! Everyone! You’re safe! You have no idea how happy this makes me!
Mae: Right back at ya, sister! That chump Jedah’s magic sent us off to who-knows-where! We were surrounded by Terrors and junk—I thought we were dead meat! But then we heard this weird voice kinda...talking, I guess? So we followed it because hey, why not? And that’s how we ended up here!
Celica: A voice? It must have been Mila.
Jedah: No... No, this cannot happen! Falchion’s seal, broken? Foul Mila! Duma is your brother! Would you truly betray your own kin?!
Alm: Stand down, Jedah! Your schemes end here and now. Prepare to pay for your atrocities!
Jedah: Rudolf’s worthless spawn... You’re both disgusting heretics. How dare you wish harm on Duma!
Celica: Open your eyes, Jedah. No matter how it pains you, you must see the truth. Duma’s gone mad—he brings only suffering to his people now. This is the divine dragons’ fate.
Jedah: Silence, girl! You know nothing of what you speak. And if suffering is the gods’ will, what of it? Without their strength at its foundation, Valentia cannot sustain life.
Alm: No. You’re wrong. It’s time for us all to stand on our own feet. To live as free men and women.
Jedah: Foolish boy. You truly believe such heresy to be possible?
Celica: It IS possible! We’ve come all this way to prove it.
Jedah: Presumptuous human child... Go on, then! Prove me wrong! Show me this strength to “stand alone.” Show me the true limits of man!

@Battle 
Gray: All we’re asking is the ability to live as we think best. Is that really so bad?

Tobin: Even without gods, I have my friends. With them, I can survive anything.

Kliff: It’s all strength and power with you. If you’re that desperate for a show of force, I’ll be happy to oblige.

Faye: This world belongs to Alm. To all of us. There’s plenty of room for hope in it... but there’s no room in it for you!

Lukas: A battle between god and mortal? Sounds exhilarating to me.

Silque: Merciful Mila... I carry your will within me. I will see Duma freed from his suffering!

Clair: This business of relying on gods and... so forth all seems quite absurd to me. The creepy man will excuse himself now!

Clive: I’ll take a proud death as my own man over a life of kneeling to a mad god!

Forsyth: I have no deference for one who would wield unjust power over his people. Such a despot is no god of mine!

Python: Ugh, people who go on and on about power are just the WORST.

Luthier: Your spirit’s voice is ghastly dark. I have no use for magic so foul.

Mathilda: I alone will decide who I choose to worship. But I can promise you one thing: it certainly won’t be you!

Delthea: Come on, who needs gods when you’re as strong as me?

Tatiana: This is my world, and Zeke’s as well. I won’t allow you to endanger it!

Zeke: Emperor Rudolf... Your loyal servant will see your dreams realized!

Mycen: This is a battle I cannot lose. For my own sake or yours, Rudolf!

Mae: You’re gonna pay for what you did to Celica, buddy. You’re gonna pay HARD!

Boey: Sorry, but I’ve got no interest in the way people like you operate. That’s reason enough for me to want to put you down!

Genny: I’ll never accept a god so horrible...

Saber: Well, hell. I’ve come this far. Might as well see the damn thing through to the end, lass.

Valbar: Foisting your way on the world by force? You’re no better than pirates. And it just so happens I don’t take kindly to pirates!

Kamui: I get the feeling my luck ran out the day I got mixed up in all this... But meh, why not? May as well see things through to the end!

Leon: Your fetish for power is simply barbaric. Where’s the joy? The love? Your perfect world is as dull as dirt.

Palla: The greatest of powers is but one mistake away from utter tragedy. We know that all too well, and I refuse to stand aside and watch it happen!

Catria: This world doesn’t exist as a plaything for dragons!

Est: It’s our world, and we’ll be the ones to shape it—Archanea and Valentia both!

Jesse: Ruling the world with might and terror? Talk about your stale clichés. What’s the point in living if you’re not having fun? I’m not about to find out!

Atlas: Yours isn’t the world I fought to protect. I’m taking every one of you down!

Sonya: Ugh. It’s almost painful to watch... Just how hopelessly ignorant can someone be?

Deen: I won’t say a world ruled by might is unappealing, per se... But a world where I bow to YOU is out of the question.

Nomah: Divine Duma, you have lived long enough... It is time to leave a world of hope and possibility to the next generation.

Conrad: Duma... O ancient benefactor. Consider this is an act of mercy. A great god is deserving of a proud and glorious end!

@Boss 
Jedah: Bow before Duma’s eminence! Kneel before his awesome power!

Jedah: Aah... This cannot be... It mustn’t... Lord Duma... My Lord...Duma...

Marla: Such naughty, willful children... Why won’t you be good and listen to Father?

Marla: Do you really...hate Father so...? Such lost...misguided children...

Hestia: That’s no fair, Sonya... Why should you be the only one allowed to live as she chooses?

Hestia: Oh... It seems so...obvious now. I should have just lived...as I pleased... like you...

Duma: Only power holds meaning. Only strength holds sway. Call to me. Thirst for me. Thirst for power!

%Alm,Duma 
Alm: It’s over, Duma! Berkut, Fernand, Mila... Even my father. They and countless others, lost to us— tainted by your precious power. But that chain of tragedies ends here.
Celica: My heart is full of thanks for all you’ve given man, O divine Duma. Without yours and Mila’s bounty, Valentia could never have existed. We would never have been born into this world. Never tasted joy and sorrow. So please, do not suffer any longer. Let all of our pain end here. Allow your great and weary soul the rest it deserves!

@End 
Duma: So be it, Alm. I leave Valentia’s future to you, her hero. Take from us what lessons you will and shape her into a land to remember. Make her strong like Duma, and fill her with Mila’s love. Let our grave mistakes be warnings of where not to tread as you lead her forth. Now, we shall sleep. And never shall you disturb our slumber.

@Dialogue 
Alm: ...
Celica: So this is where you were.
Alm: Huh? Oh, hey, Celica.
Celica: You aren’t going to be late to your own coronation, are you?
Alm: No. ...Of course not. I’m just still wrapping my head around sitting on your father’s throne. None of it feels real.
Celica: ...It isn’t my father’s throne. This isn’t Zofia any longer, Alm. It’s the One Kingdom of Valentia. And you’re going to be its first ruler.
Alm: Celica...
Celica: Please don’t misunderstand. I don’t bear him any grudge. Not now. I just think he was a very sad man. Perhaps if I’d been there with him, I might have helped him change. If I have any regrets, it’s that.
Alm: I know what you mean... Neither of us got the chance to stand by our fathers. If we’d been given the opportunity to learn more about each other, maybe things would’ve turned out differently for us.
Celica: Perhaps it was the same for Mila and Duma.
Alm: Hmm... I wonder. They’d been fighting for centuries, right? Seems like a lost cause to me.
Celica: Alm, that’s a terrible thing to say!
Alm: Ah, sorry! I didn’t mean any disrespect. But they’re at peace now, you know? Asleep. ...Together.
Celica: Yes. They’ll look down over this new Valentia forever from their mountaintop graves. ...And the trees. Do you know of them, Alm? They say that where divine dragons sleep, sacred trees take root and grow.
Alm: Wow. Must be some trees.
Celica: In time, yes. They grow for hundreds, even thousands of years. Who can say what Valentia will look like once they’ve matured? Will man’s endeavors continue without the grace and strength of the gods?
Alm: They won’t continue on their own. We have to make it happen. We’ll forge a land where we can do just that. All of us—together.
Celica: That sounds lovely, Alm. And you’re right. I know we can do it.
Alm: We can...and we will. I think Mila and Duma gave us one last gift... The strength to trust in our own abilities. ...Anyway, it’s time. Let’s go, Celica.
Celica: Gladly.

@Narration
And so the long war drew to a close. After countless sacrifices, at last, a new peace dawned in Valentia. Was it inexorable fate that saw this conflict erupt? No man or woman alive can say. Only one truth is clear: War will come again, when man grows proud and slothful once more, and its flames will devour one and all, raging until the very earth itself lies scorched and bare of life. For whatever madness lay in the hearts of gods... a darkness deeper still beats wild in the hearts of man...
/***EOF***/
@Cutscene 
Alm: "Once upon a time, there was a god named Duma and a goddess named Mila who fought each other bitterly for an age."
Celica: Hey, why did Mila and Duma have to fight so much? Couldn't they just say they were sorry?
Alm: Let’s promise we'll never end up like that, okay?
Celica: Yeah, nothing will ever come between us.

Alm: Gods, no...
Alm: Don't leave me, Celica... You can’t!
Alm: Celica? Celica! Say something, please!
Alm: CELICAAA!

@Dialogue 
Faye: ...Alm? ...Alm! *sigh* Where did he go this time?
Gray: What's the matter, Faye? Don't tell me you’re after him again?
Faye: Oh! Hey, Gray. Say, have you seen Alm? I can't find him anywhere.
Kliff: Alm? Don’t waste your time looking for that guy.
Faye: Kliff! ...Wait, why not?
Kliff: He and Celica went off for a stroll in the woods. I saw them leave.
Faye: He's with Celica? ...Again?
Gray: Exactly. Again?! I mean, Celica JUST moved to Ram Village, right? *sigh* Nice to know we're so easily replaced.
Faye: H-he's not replacing us. Celica's his cousin. Of course they’re gonna be close.
Kliff: Uh, I hate to break it to you, Faye...
Faye: Huh?
Kliff: Sir Mycen only has one grandkid. And that's Alm. Celica is his ward. Mother told me. They’re not related by blood.
Gray: Kliff's ma, spoutin' gossip? *gasp* I don’t believe it! Still, I like where this story is going. Celica and her dark, unspeakable past...
Faye: Stop that, would you? So does this mean... I mean... Is Alm gonna marry her someday?
Gray: Wha— Marry her?! Are we having the same conversation?
Tobin: Ha ha! Ah, there you are! You guys'll never believe this!
Gray: Hey, Tobin. Believe what?
Tobin: Somebody saw a knight in the woods! A real knight! From the castle! Come on, let's go check it out!
Gray: What? Why would a knight come here? Big fan of manure or something? I'm not missing this! He could be the last knight we see for months...or years! Kliff, Faye! You coming?
Faye: Yeah!
Kliff: Huh? H-hey, wait up!

Celica: Alm! Over here! Come look at this!
Alm: What is it, Celica? You find something?
Celica: I made a wreath out of these flowers. Here, put it on!
Alm: Wh-what? No!
Celica: Why not? I think it'd make you look very handsome.
Alm: I think you mean "very stupid." Boys don’t wear wreaths.
Celica: Don't call it stupid! It took me a long time to make this. Fine then. Maybe I’ll just give it to Grandpapa instead.
Alm: You're kidding, right?
Celica: Grandpapa knows a manly wreath when he sees one...unlike SOME boys. Ha ha.
Alm: Har har. Very funny.
Celica: You're picturing him wearing it. Ha ha! Admit it!
Alm: ...Heh heh.
Celica: There’s the smile I was looking for. ...Huh? What, is something wrong?
Alm: No, I just... I'm glad you’ve cheered up, is all. When you first came to the village, you always wore such a dark expression... Plus, you never spoke a word! Grandpapa told me to be nice, but I wasn't sure how to make things better.
Celica: Well, I think you did just fine. Each story that you told me, each flower you picked for me, each walk you took with me here in the woods— that all made a difference, Alm.
Alm: Come on, I didn’t do anything special.
Celica: Or maybe you did. I'm sorry that my first words to you were so unkind.
Alm: Are you talking about when you called me a "boor," or a "clod"?
Celica: Hey, I said I’m sorry! I've just never had any friends my age. So I guess I wasn't used to boys like you.
Alm: Well, I'd never met a girl like you, either. Don’t let it get to you.
Celica: Say, Alm? Why are you so nice to me?
Alm: ...Why? Do I need a reason? I mean, I guess it's because I never knew my parents, I have no siblings... and Grandpapa has always forbid me from setting foot outside the village. You're like a window to a world that I’ve never had the chance to know. Is that a good enough reason, or... ...Oh, hey!
Celica: What is it?
Alm: See this? We have the same mark.
Celica: Um, yes? Except yours is on your left hand and mine is on my right...
Alm: Well, that makes us close! Er, doesn’t it?
Celica: Ha ha! I suppose it does, in a strange sort of way. I wonder why the marks are so similar.
Alm: It's because they’re special. They prove that the two of us belong together. Always. That is, if you're not already tired of a clod like me making you laugh.
Celica: Of course not! So...do you mean it? We'll always be together?
Alm: Yes. I promise. Isn't that what you want?
Celica: Yes, of course! You have my word, I'll never lea—
Faye: [offscreen] Eeeeeek!
Alm: Huh? That was Faye!
Celica: Is she in trouble?
Alm: It came from beyond those trees. Come on!

Faye: Stop it! Let me go!
Soldier: Heh... Looks like our luck's picked up, eh, Sir Slayde? After days of the same old trees, such cherubic faces are welcome indeed! After all, where little brats play... we’ll find a village, I say.
Slayde: Listen well, you whelps. My men and I, loyal knights in service to His Majesty King Lima IV— may the powers bless him and his name until the end of days— hereby command you to lead us to your miserable line of hovels, where you shall have the honor of dining us and otherwise providing all comforts. It shall be an evening to remember. So lead on! And make haste, now.
Tobin: B-but, we can't just... We'll get the scolding of our lives if we bring strangers to the village!
Gray: Good Sir Knight, if I may... Ahem! Our home is but a small village—to call it a line of hovels is too generous. We do not wish to offend you when you are clearly deserving of so much more. So please, we humbly implore your great mightiness to—
Slayde: You. Boy. Have you an older sister?
Gray: Er, me? I have two, actually. What about 'em?
Slayde: Ha ha ha! That’ll suffice! We’ll take all the food and drink you can muster—and your sisters can serve it! I wager we’ll get naught but pig feed and horse piss, but so be it. I shall force it down if I must.
Gray: Grrr...
Kliff: *sniff*
Gray: Gods, Kliff, shut your hole! Don’t cry in front of ’em!
Kliff: B-but Gray...
Tobin: We should ALL be crying, Gray! We’re not really gonna take 'em to the village, are we?!
Gray: Hey, I don’t like it either! If I knew the royal knights were such royal turds, I never would've—
Slayde: Enough chittering, little squirrels, I am not a patient man! If you do not wish to entertain us the one way, you can entertain us the other. Perhaps we shall remove your tiny heads from your shoulders, one...by...one.
Gray: Aaaaah! 
Slayde: You first, filly. Don’t worry, lass— I’ll make a nice, clean cut...
Faye: No!
Alm: Back off!
Slayde: Ugh. How many whelps does this blasted village contain?!
Alm: Get away from my friends! You're not going to set one foot in our village!
Slayde: Is that so? Someone neglected to teach this mangy pup any manners... Hmm?
Celica: *gasp*
Slayde: You there! Girl! Show me your face.
Celica: No...
Slayde: By the gods... It really IS her! Heh heh. How you came to walk among these animals is beyond me. Regardless, you shall make a fine prize to take back to General Desaix. [to his minions] Seize her!
Celica: No... L-let me go!
Alm: Get your hands off her!
Slayde: Ooof!
Gray: *gasp* Alm, you did NOT just punch a knight!
Slayde: Urgh! You dare raise a hand to me?! You baseborn...barn-bred... So be it. You will stave off your death sentences no longer—especially you!
Alm: Ah!
Slayde: Ha ha ha! The Mother can’t save you now, brat!
Celica: Alm! Look out!
Alm: ...Huh? *gasp* Grandpapa?
Slayde: What? Mycen?! What are you doing in a backwater wasteland like— ...Ah. But I think I know.
Mycen: ......
Slayde: Now, this...this is indeed good fortune. We never finished what we started in the flames that night, old man. I have much to repay you for. ...I mustn't forget ALL my virtues, after all.
Mycen: ...Children. Run to the cemetery up ahead. Go on now.
Alm: What? Why? What are you gonna do?
Mycen: Now, Alm! All of you! RUN!
Alm: A-all right. Come on, guys!

@Intro 
Mycen: Listen well, children. We will drive these ruffians away, but you must follow my every command.
Alm: What? But we’re no match for them!
Celica: ...You’re serious, Grandpapa?
Gray: He’s ALWAYS serious! It’s just that this time, he’s also crazy!
Tobin: We can’t do this! Half a dozen children can’t win against mounted knights!
Faye: *cries* I...I want my mother...
Kliff: [sniffles] I wanna go home!
Mycen: ENOUGH!
Alm: ...!
Mycen: The only way you’re going home is by fighting as if your life depends on it! Alm! Celica!
Alm: Uh, sir!
Mycen: I trust you two remember some of what I’ve taught you of the sword. Now, clear the mind, steady the hand, and show me what you’ve learned. Only you can get yourselves through this!

@Battle 
Mycen: Are you ready? I want you to follow my every command. First, get yourselves to a safer position!

Mycen: Keep your distance from the enemy. Don’t try to pursue them!

Mycen: Take shelter in the trees there. They can provide cover. Remember, always use the surrounding terrain to your advantage!

Mycen: You’ve done all you can for now. Now brace for their attack!

@Boss 
Slayde: Damn! They nearly have me... But not today. I must return to the castle. General Desaix will be eager to learn that we have found...her. The princess who refuses to die. Heh heh heh...

@End 
Alm: We did it! We actually did it! Look at 'em run, Grandpapa!
Gray: So, wait. HOW did we do that. exactly?
Tobin: Ha ha! It’s all in the wrist.
Kliff: You wish. We only survived because we did exactly as Sir Mycen commanded.
Tobin: Oh yeah? Does that mean Sir Mycen commanded you to sob like a baby?
Faye: [pants for air] How can you guys joke about this?
Alm: Grandpapa, Celica, that was great!
Mycen: Mmm...
Celica: ......
Alm: What? You’re not happy? We saved the village from those despicable knaves! We’re heroes! I mean, if nothing else, we’re not dead. You could at least crack a smile.
Celica: Alm, you don’t understand.
Mycen: Now that they know Celica is here, they will stop at nothing. It’s no longer safe for her to stay in the village.
Alm: ...What? But...why? It doesn’t have to be like that. Tell him, Celica!
Celica: I'm so sorry, Alm. I know that you would have kept your promise.
Alm: Don’t apologize, Celica. Just... Just tell me that this is a mistake! That you don’t have to go!
Mycen: It is already settled. And we lack the time to discuss it further. Get back to the village and pack your things, Celica. Hurry.
Celica: Yes, sir...
Alm: Hold on a second! Explain this to me, Grandpapa. Why are you making her leave? I want to know!
Mycen: No, my boy—I fear that’s a page you don’t want to turn. ...Not yet, at any rate.
Alm: Oh, great. Now you’re talking in riddles? I won’t let you do this to her! She needs me!
Mycen: You? A foolish boy who won’t listen to reason? Celica has proven she has the strength to make hard choices. Yet what of you?
Alm: Please... Don’t take her away...
Celica: Alm... Would you mind looking after something for me?
Alm: *gasp* But this is... This is your good-luck charm. You never take this off! It’s...special.
Celica: Yes, it is. And now it’s yours. I want you to keep it close always. As close as you would have kept me. My mother gave that to me. Not that I actually remember, but...
Alm: Celica, I can’t take this from you.
Celica: You’re not taking it, I’m giving it. I pray that it keeps you safe. Take care, Alm.
Alm: Wait... Celica!

Tobin: Well, this turned into a fine mess.
Kliff: We don't know why she’s leaving, or even where she’s going. And whatever Sir Mycen knows, he isn’t telling the likes of us.
Gray: Hey, not everything is our business. I just feel bad for her, you know? She and Alm are different from us.
Tobin: Different? In what way?
Gray: In every way.

@Dialogue 
Mycen: Are you certain, Celica?
Celica: Yes. If I try to say good-bye to him, I’ll just end up crying. Grandp— Er, Sir Mycen? Where will I go next?
Mycen: Hmm... I have a place in mind. Perhaps it's time to call on an old friend. Under his care, I am certain your enemies will never find you. Forgive an old knight for failing you, Princess. Had the Mother willed it... I would have stayed by your side and protected you to my dying days. But I cannot leave Ram Village. Not yet.
Celica: You don’t need to apologize, Sir Mycen. I regret nothing. The days I spent here with you and Alm were wonderful. The experiences I had and the friends I made all mean the world to me. You don’t have to be my shining knight, Sir Mycen— you just have to promise to always be my grandpapa.
Mycen: Of course.
Alm: CELICA!
Celica: *gasp* ...Alm?
Alm: Celica!
Celica: Alm! You came for me.
Alm: I want to make a new promise. One day, when I’m older and stronger, I’m going to find you. It doesn’t matter where the world hides you or how long it takes. I promise to find you. So please...don’t forget me, okay?
Celica: I could never forget you, Alm. And I promise too. I’ll be waiting for the day we can meet again. But for now, I have to go. [to Mycen]...Grandpapa?
Mycen: Yes, child?
Celica: ...Do you think I’ll ever see him again?
Mycen: I do. So long as destiny wills it.
Celica: Destiny... So be it.

@Narration
Once, the gods themselves walked these lands. Our continent of Valentia was home to two of them: sibling gods named Duma and Mila. The elder god, Duma, believed mankind must be ruled by strength, lest we become corrupt, while his sister, Mila, believed we should be free to pursue lives of pleasure and comfort. The two clashed ceaselessly. It was a long, dark age before the bitter conflict was resolved with the binding of a divine accord. Valentia would be divided in twain—with Duma ruling the north and Mila ruling the south—and in order to secure a lasting peace, each pledged never to violate the other’s dominion.
For millennia, this accord was honored, and peace did indeed reign. In time, the Kingdom of Zofia, which Mila founded in the south, prospered with the goddess’s love and blessings. Hers were a happy people who knew no toil and lived free of hardship, but Mila's gifts spoiled the Zofians, and it was only a matter of time before they sank into depravity.
Meanwhile, in the north, Duma had built his own empire. Tempered by harsh lands and the even harsher teachings of their fierce god, the people of Rigel had grown strong. But in their quest for power, the Rigelians had let their hearts grow cold and numb to all kindness.
Both halves of the continent were in a fragile state, and the cracks had begun to show. And now, Valentia lies on the cusp of a terrible war that could forever alter its history...
/***EOF***/
@Conversation 
Scholarly Man: I am a researcher unearthing shocking new truths from Zofia’s history. ...Or I very well might be, if I had any of the resources I needed. Might I ask your help in this matter? You are familiar with the underground cemetery at the Deliverance hideout? Well, at one corner of that site lies the royal grave where Zofia’s kings sleep. At the risk of sounding grave-robby, I desire the Lima Armlet from it. But the place is crawling with Terrors, and I...am not the Terror type. Yet those Terrors are drawn to riches. It’s said they raid the graves for gold. One may drop the armlet I require. Bring it to me and I’ll pay you well!

Scholarly Man: Ah! The Lima Armlet! Precisely as the records describe it... It bears the royal emblem of the late king himself. If I can translate this inscription, it may even offer up new insights. Er, pardon me for getting so excited. I’m only eager to return to work. This isn’t a huge sum, but please, take it. You’ve done me a great service.

Scholarly Man: Wa...What? No, please! What will become of my poor, beleaguered research?!

Scholarly Man: Oh, you don’t have it. And here I got my scholarly hopes up...

Scholarly Man: How goes your investigation of the underground cemetery?

Young Man: There’s a strange old man I’ve not seen before hanging about the throne room. There’s something not right about him. Almost like he’s some manner of ghost.

Eerie Hermit: I have long stood watch over this castle and its masters... But some fool has violated the grave where Zofia’s monarchs lie. They’ve broken the seal, and now a massive fiend has made its home there. It sullies the site with its foul presence, barring the fallen kings from slumber. I ask this of you, warrior—rid their holy tomb of this blight!

Eerie Hermit: Fine work, child of fate. You have proven your strength. My master, too, has acknowledged you as worthy to inherit the kingdom. That royal shield is your proof. Use it well. And know that my master and I will watch over you always.

Eerie Hermit: You must destroy the beast that has made its home in the royal grave.

Young Man: Mmm? Where did the strange old man who was in here go? I wonder who he actually was...?

Lord Rion: It’s over... All over.... There’s nothing to be done!

Lord Rion: I am the eldest son of the Rion family, one of Zofia’s oldest houses. But that dog Desaix demanded we give him our greatest heirloom—a shield. The Rion Shield was a gift from Queen Zofia I, passed down ever since. If I can’t find some way to recover it, my ancestors’ legacy will be lost. The Deliverance is marching on Desaix’s fortress, is it not? If you chance to find the Rion Shield, please see it returned to me. You will be rewarded handsomely, of course. I thank you in advance.

Lord Rion: Yes... Yes! This is our family shield! You have my thanks! And here, a token of that gratitude.

Lord Rion: Now that I’ve recovered the shield, I must be heading home.

Lord Rion: What is your intent in this? Why would you play at such a game?

Lord Rion: Please recover the Rion Shield. I cannot bear to return home without it!

Lord Rion: This shield bears the crest of the Fugue family—our sworn enemies! A pox on those dastards! Even looking upon this sets my blood to boil!

@Intro 
Ally Soldier: Sir Alm! Our scouts have spied Rigelian forces up ahead!
Alm: ...... ...Then the battle begins here.
Lukas: So it seems. The fights ahead will be nothing like our skirmishes in the south. You’ve wounded Rigel’s pride, and they will strike back without mercy. But the spirit of Zofia demands you prevail. There’s no turning back now.
Alm: I know.
Fernand: There you are, whelp. I thought you’d never arrive.
Alm: Wait a second...
Clive: Fernand?! You march beneath Rigel’s standard now?
Fernand: Does that really surprise you, Clive? You and the Deliverance took all I believed in and trod it into the mire. In Rigel, they still have ideals worth upholding.
Clive: Damn you, Fernand! Listen to yourself!
Fernand: My king is dead. My country fallen. But I’ll not hand this land over to you. Now, it is the Rigelian Empire’s turn. Lord Berkut shall lead us and unite Valentia under one noble order!
Clive: Come to your senses, Fernand! You have always fought for your motherland—for Zofia!
Fernand: Only one of us has lost his senses, Clive.
Clive: What?
Fernand: Allow me to enlighten you. That boy you have been parading around as your new hero? He was never Mycen’s grandson.
Clive:  What is this folly?
Fernand: ...Oh, I can assure you it is no folly. My source has known Sir Mycen for years. The old knight has no family. Heh. Perhaps he made some orphan his ward so he wouldn’t have to die alone.
Clive: You lie... And yet there is the matter of what the old man at the castle said...
Fernand: Ha ha ha! Oh, Clive. You’ve become the very picture of absurdity. Once you were a man to whom the lineage of our noble houses meant all. But now you take for your future king a boy you don’t know from a gutter rat!
Clive: ......

@Boss 
Fernand: Come at me. Surely you detestable vermin don’t think you can stand against a true nobleman?

Fernand: Nnngh... I have...no choice... I must fall back...and rejoin Lord Berkut in the main force...

Zaxon: You don’t look half as scared as you ought. Don’t you value your lives? It’s time you had the fear of death put back into you!

Zaxon: No... I’ll not surrender... Not like...this...

@End 
Alm: We’ve emerged victorious, but... the survivors will be making their way back to the main force. We can’t rest on our laurels now. Wouldn’t you agree, Clive?
Clive: ...Hmm? Oh, yes. Quite.
Alm: What is it? You look shaken. ...Oh, right. Forgive me. You and Fernand were good friends.
Clive: No, it’s not that... Well, it’s not JUST that... In any case, it’s nothing you need trouble yourself with. If you’ll excuse me.
Alm: What’s with him?

@Intro 
Lukas: A moment please, Alm. I have a fresh report from our scouts. Apparently, the enemy’s main force has retreated west through the forest. But before we give chase, we should deal with Desaix. It wouldn’t be wise to pass him by while his fortress lies in reach.
Alm: All right, that makes sense. But listen, Lukas... Do you know anything about the Rigelian general Fernand mentioned? Berkut, I believe it was?
Lukas: Lord Berkut, yes. I am no stranger to the rumors, at least. They say he is about your age. A talented young general of royal blood... It’s no wonder Fernand is so smitten with him.
Alm: Yeah... Does it really matter so much where you’re born or who your father was?
Lukas: I beg your pardon?
Alm: Oh—sorry, I was just... I don’t meant to speak ill of nobles or anything.
Lukas: Well, I should hope not. Your own grandfather was a count, after all.
Alm: Yeah, I know, but...
Clive: ...... Enough of this talk. Alm, beyond this forest lies a great army— you shouldn’t trouble yourself with anything but the battles ahead.
Alm: You’re right, Clive. I apologize.
Clive: ......

@Battle 
Berkut: As I live and breathe... The Deliverance! Well, this is simply delightful.
Alm: Huh?! Fernand! And who’s this?
Berkut: My name is Berkut. I am nephew to His Majesty Emperor Rudolf.
Alm: So here he is...
Berkut: Alm, was it? I must say, I was most impressed by the battle at Zofia Castle. I nearly mistook that motley band of rustics you were leading for an army.
Clive: What are you doing here? Your main force has retreated.
Fernand: Lord Berkut longs for sport and wishes to test your might.
Berkut: I’ve gone too long without fighting and felt I needed a spot of practice. Now then...do try to make this little exercise worth my time!
Alm: Gods, he’s charging right at us!
Berkut: Hah! What’s the matter, farmboy? Afraid you won’t land a single blow?
Alm: The name is Alm—not “farmboy.”
Berkut: Oh, my mistake. Wait a second...
Berkut: That mark on your left hand... Where did that come from?
Alm: What do you care?! Are you here to fight or not?
Berkut: No... It cannot be the Brand. Not on one as unremarkable as you. It must be false. Just like its bearer!

@Boss 
Berkut: Come then! Are you going to entertain me or not?

Berkut: They’re stronger than I thought... But no... I came here to be entertained, not to give up my life.

Fernand: I needn’t test you as Lord Berkut does. I already know how pathetic you are!

Fernand: Careless... But next time will be different.

@End 
Alm: I’m not quite sure how we just pulled that off... There were only three of them—how did they give us so much trouble?
Clive: Rigel may be stronger than I first believed... What if this IS a mistake?
Alm: Did you say something, Clive?
Clive: ...It was nothing. Come, we must plan our siege of Desaix’s fortress. An ally of ours is being held there, and we must rescue her.
Alm: ...You’re talking about Mathilda, right? I heard what happened. She’s...special to you, isn’t she?
Clive: She is. We promised to share a future together. And because of that promise, she has suffered for far too long. It relieves me to know she will soon be free of this burden.
Alm: I’m glad to hear it. And you know I’ll do everything I can to help!
Clive: Thank you, Alm.

@Conversation
Woman: You’re too late! Ain’t nothin’ left for you in this village. We never made trouble for no one. Honored the old laws, we did. But Desaix and them Rigelian brutes raided and pillaged us all the same! You’re with the Deliverance, ain’t ya? Then think kindly on us when ya give that dastard Desaix what’s comin’!

Young Man: Are you with the Deliverance? I’m afraid I have some ill news. One of the enemy soldiers mentioned a female knight they’re holding captive. Desaix plans to put her to death soon as an example to others...
Clive: What?! They intend to execute Mathilda?!
Young Man: I fear so, good sir knight. If she’s dear to you, you’d best march on his fortress before it’s too late.

Young Woman: Desaix’s men come here without pause to raid, pillage, and upend our lives. One of their more wicked knights even made off with some poor lass! And now the empire is trying to start a flood and put half of Zofia to ruin. *sigh* Will we never have peace?

Old Timer: Luthier and Delthea descend from the founder of our village, so they do. She was a mage, one who was said to be the champion Zofia’s finest disciple. For generations, children in their family have been born with a gift for magic, though only those in our village and the late king knew of it. So what fool told those damned Rigelians? *sigh*

@Recruit-Conversation 
Luthier: *gasp* You there! You’re with the Deliverance, are you not?
Alm: I am. Who are you?
Luthier: My name is Luthier. Merely a humble mage from a humble village. On this day, however, I cry your aid, for my younger sister is in trouble!
Alm: What happened?
Luthier: First of all, you should know that my sister is named Delthea. She possesses magical potential beyond that of any in our village. One of Rigel’s arcanists, Tatarrah, caught wind of this and kidnapped her. He’s using his powers to control her and make her guard the northern sluice. They plan to block the sluice until it collapses and Zofia is flooded.
Alm: What?! But that would be catastrophic!
Luthier: Indeed it would. Surely you’re planning to stop them, correct? If so, I ask that you also rescue my sister. I’ll even go with you if you like. If we defeat Tatarrah, that will release his hold on her.

Luthier: Your decisions are your business. See to your own desires, then. I will be here if you find your mind changed.

Luthier: So... Will you let me accompany you or no?

Man: Soldiers of the Deliverance, I require your assistance! Gargoyles have kidnapped my daughter and taken her to the western shrine. If it is at all in your power, you must not let any harm befall her. I know I ask much, so if you manage to save her, my treasure is yours!

Man: I’ve been waiting for you, Deliverance! I hear you saved my daughter from the shrine to the west. I insist you help yourself to my treasure.

Girl: Tee hee. Thank you for coming to save me, brave sir.

Merchant’s Wife: Please, I need your help! My husband went to Zofia Castle to sell his wares, but hasn’t returned. What am I to do? Our child will be born soon, and I can’t survive without him. And actually, I heard a girl from our village was taken to the Sylvan Shrine... What if my husband was taken there as well? Oh, I can’t bear it! If you’re heading to the Sylvan Shrine, would you please look for him?

Merchant’s Wife: Did you find my husband? I think he’s being held in the Sylvan Shrine.

Merchant’s Wife: Wh-what? Aaaaaah!

@Dialogue 
Fernand: Mathilda...
Mathilda: Fernand? What are you doing here? Have you come to rescue me?!
Fernand: No, milady. I fear I no longer serve the Deliverance.
Mathilda: What? What do you mean?
Fernand: Exactly as I said. Sadly, Clive and I no longer share the same ideals. I have sworn my lance instead to Lord Berkut of the Rigelian Empire.
Mathilda: The general who leads our enemies? Has madness taken you?! A lance sworn to him is a lance through my heart. Don’t you care about Zofia?
Fernand: Zofia? You mean the proud kingdom whose riches fell to wild and ignorant savages? Zofia is dead to me. I have buried her and will not look back.
Mathilda: How can you say such a thing, Fernand? You and Clive were like brothers. It’s not too late to fix this. Return to the Deliverance! I know Clive would welcome you back with open arms.
Fernand: ...With you by my side, I might have chosen differently.
Mathilda: Fernand?
Fernand: What is done is done. ...Desaix intends to put you to death. It won’t be long now.
Mathilda: *gasp*
Fernand: On the morrow, I depart for Rigel at Lord Berkut’s side. Farewell, Mathilda.
Mathilda: Fernand, wait!

@Battle 
Soldier: Chancellor! The rebels have reached the fortress!
Desaix: And damn them for it. Why can’t that Clive see reason? He would sooner have me kill his woman than lay down arms? The obstinate fool! Ah, well. It seems she is of no further use to me. ...Archers! Kill that wench in the cage, but do it slowly. I want her suffering to last.

@Boss 
Desaix: It seems I vastly misestimated you. I’ll grant you that. But today you vermin will die at my hands!
Desaix: Damn you, Mycen... You think to...hand Zofia over to Rudolf’s pup...? T-traitorous dastard...!

@End 
Tobin: We did it, Alm! Desaix is finished!
Alm: Yeah...
Tobin: Huh? What’s wrong? I thought you’d be thrilled.
Alm: I AM thrilled, but... Desaix’s dying words have been troubling me. Something about my grandfather and Emperor Rudolf.
Tobin: Huh? You sure you’re not imagining things? What would Sir Mycen and the Rigelian emperor have to do with each other?
Alm: That’s what concerns me. Something’s been bothering me lately. Something I can’t shake. It feels like every victory I secure takes me one step further from Zofia.
Tobin: Ha! Am I allowed to point out that that’s literally what’s happening? We’re a long way from Ram Village, kid. Look, I’m worried too. About my family, about everyone else we left behind... I miss them all terribly, so I get that you’re homesick. But that’s okay, Alm.
Alm: Thanks, but...I’m afraid that’s not what this is, Tobin. This is...different. *sigh*

@Dialogue 
Tatarrah: Desaix has fallen... It is but a matter of time until the Deliverance reaches the sluice gate. Your moment to shine has come, my dear Delthea.
Delthea: (possesed moan)
Tatarrah: That traitor is certainly proving himself useful... Heh heh heh...

@Dialogue 
Tobin: Whoa, look at this. Hey, Alm
Alm: You find something, Tobin?
Tobin: I sure did. Feast your eyes on this baby! You think this is the treasure Desaix stole from Zofia Castle?
Alm: Well...it certainly looks important. Should we open it?
Tobin: Whooooooa! Check the sword! That is one impressive piece of hardware! I’m just gonna—
Tobin: Hng...! Whu... Huh? This thing weighs a ton! It won’t...budge...
Lukas: This must be the Royal Sword of Zofia.
Alm: What’s that?
Lukas: Long ago, Rigel presented this sword to Zofia as a symbol of friendship. It’s a very special treasure—only one of royal blood can lift it.
Alm: Hmm... Interesting. Here, Tobin—let me have a go at it.
Tobin: You?! Pfft, please. If I can’t lift it, there’s no way that— Huh?!
Alm: Sometimes I don’t get you, Tobin. This thing’s light as a feather. Was this all some kind of jape? Who put you up to this?
Tobin: But...but it wasn’t a jape! Zero japes! I thought my arms would snap just trying to lift it!
Alm: Hmm. But that means...
Lukas: By the gods... You can wield the Royal Sword! ...Hmm, what DOES that mean? Alm, are you...
Alm: ...... O-oh, come on. It’s just some legend. You don’t actually BELIEVE it, right? I’m sure everyone can use this thing! Well, except Tobin. And...um... Look, I’m sure the Zofian royals made up a story to keep folks from nicking it.
Lukas: ...Well, that didn’t exactly work out now, did it? But perhaps you’re right. Tales do have a habit of getting taller with time. Either way, it seems clear the blade belongs with you.
Alm: Are you sure? I mean, we could have other people give it a shot.
Lukas: It wouldn’t work. You alone seem able to tame this legend. And we wouldn’t want to see so fine a treasure wasted, would we? Take it.
Alm: Well...all right...

Alm: Clive, I’m... I’m so sorry about Mathilda. I couldn’t save her. I didn’t have what it takes.
Clive: ...No. You did not.
Alm: Huh?
Clive: You have ruined everything! First you cost me my best friend, and now the woman I love is dead! Is that what you would have me say?! ...It will not close these wounds.
Alm: Look, I’m...
Clive: ...... I wish I could stand by my choices, unwavering. I have always done what I thought to be right, even when my heart disagreed. But now I must face cold reality. I may have made a terrible error.
Alm: What are you talking about, Clive?
Gray: Oh no. No, no, no. We’re not going down THAT old road now. Don’t you dare say that making Alm the Deliverance’s leader was a mistake. We’ve been through way too much to start in with second-guessing now!
Tobin: Yeah! I mean, I know you lost so much, and that you’re hurting. But don’t take it out on Alm. He’s been doing as good a job as anyone!
Clair: The two boys will hold their tongues! My brother will not be subjected to your abuses!
Tobin: Ah...
Clair: You are a loathsome cad, Gray. As are you, Tobin. Clive has just lost someone dear to his heart. If you possessed hearts yourselves, you would leave him in peace to grieve!
Tobin: B-but...
Alm: Would you all please calm down?
Tobin: But Alm—
Alm: Clive is clearly privy to some information he can’t share with us. Am I right, Clive?
Clive: Alm, please...
Alm: You’ve been acting strange for a while now. Whatever secret you’re harboring, I know it weighs heavy on you. I’ve been scared to broach the subject because I could sense it was about me.
Clive: ......
Alm: But if nothing else, I want you to know this... I will always be grateful for the trust you have placed in me, and I will be honored for each moment I can fight for the Deliverance. She wanted to know why a nobody like me would risk so much to fight. The answer was, I just wanted to make a difference in people’s lives. I HAD to leave Ram Village. It was just a matter of when. When Lukas came to the village, that was my “when.” I want to repay that kindness. Clive, Lukas—let me help you. Let me help Fernand.
Clive: Fernand? But he has insulted you at every step.
Alm: And I can’t claim to understand his motivations for all of that. But he helped you and Mathilda found the Deliverance, didn’t he? He’s part of the reason we’ve come this far. So he deserves my respect, no matter how he’s treated me in the past. If he returns to the Deliverance, I’ll gladly welcome him back.
Clive: You would do such? ...Pray forgive me, Alm. I withdraw my words from before. But there are yet matters I need time to consider.
Alm: Take all the time you need.

@Recruit-Conversation 
Clive: Mathilda!
Mathilda: *gasp* Clive! Oh, how I have missed you, my sweet Clive!
Clive: Forgive me, Mathilda. I should never have left you to suffer for so long. Speak now your loathing for me, and I will gladly bear it all.
Mathilda: Oh, stop your nonsense. You did what any commander ought. Your judgment was sound. And I bear the blame for my capture, not you. I was careless. So let us speak no more of blame.
Clive: As you wish.
Mathilda: Good. Now, I wonder what comes next...
Clive: What indeed...
Alm: ......
Gray: What a woman! Yowza! ...Um, Alm? You’re blushing.
Alm: Wh-What? No I’m not!
Mathilda: Ah, you must be Alm.
Alm: Y-Yes, milady.
Mathilda: I would not be alive if not for your fine leadership. I thank you from the bottom of my heart, Alm. And with your permission, I wish to take up arms at your side. Will you have me?

Mathilda: Very well. I have confidence in my ability to fight, but will respect your judgment. Please come find me if you change your mind.

Mathilda: Yes? What is it? I stand ready to fight for you. You need only speak the words.

@Dialogue 
Mathilda: I saw Fernand. He visited me in my cell the other day.
Clive: I see. Then you know what has transpired.
Mathilda: Yes. It feels like a different age when the three of us started the Deliverance. Though we were once brethren, we now must come to blows.
Clive: (sad sigh) I wish I could stand by my choices, unwavering. I have always done what I thought to be right, even when my heart disagreed. But now I must face cold reality.
Mathilda: What do you mean?
Clive: I may have made a terrible error.
Alm: Huh? What are you talking about?
Clive: (sad sigh)
Gray: Oh no. No, no, no. We’re not going down THAT old road now. Don’t you dare say that making Alm the Deliverance’s leader was a mistake. We’ve been through way too much to start in with second-guessing now!
Tobin: Yeah! I mean, I know you lost a dear friend, and that you’re hurting. But don’t take it out on Alm. He’s been doing as good a job as anyone!
Alm: Would you all please calm down?
Tobin: But Alm—
Alm: Clive is clearly privy to some information he can’t share with us. Am I right, Clive?
Clive: Alm, please...
Alm: You’ve been acting strange for a while now. Whatever secret you’re harboring, I know it weighs heavy on you. I’ve been scared to broach the subject because I could sense it was about me.
Clive: ......
Alm: But if nothing else, I want you to know this... and I will be honored for each moment I can fight for the Deliverance. ...You know, a friend once confronted me about this. She wanted to know why a nobody like me would risk so much to fight. The answer was, I just wanted to make a difference in people’s lives. When Lukas came to the village, that was my “when.” Don’t you see? Every one of you has set my life moving in ways I never imagined. I want to repay that kindness. Clive, Lukas, Mathilda—let me help you. Let me help Fernand.
Clive: But he has insulted you at every step.
Alm: Oh, I’m well aware. And I can’t claim to understand his motivations for all of that. But he helped you and Mathilda found the Deliverance, didn’t he? So he deserves my respect, no matter how he’s treated me in the past. If he returns to the Deliverance, I’ll gladly welcome him back.
Clive: You would do such? I cannot speak for Fernand, but... Thank you, Alm.

@Conversation 
Alessio: What a mess I’ve gotten myself into...
Alessio: You see, Chancellor Desaix asked me to procure him a coral ring. But what happened when I acquired the coral shards and crafted the ring? The damned Deliverance came along and killed the buyer! I sunk all I had into this coral ring. If I don’t sell it, I’ll be ruined! Er...say. Do YOU want a coral ring? It’s crafted from the finest coral fragments a merchant can scrounge up! Since you seem woefully poor... Hmm... Well, I’ll cut you a deal and part with the ring for a mere 30 silver marks.

Alessio: Then we have a deal! ...And thank the Mother we do! Now I can finally go home.

Alessio: Hmph. Fine, skinflint!

Alessio: Ho there, friend! Are you interested in the sale of the century? This is a coral ring made from only the finest coral fragments. And I am willing to part with it for the low, low price of 30 silver marks.

Soldier: The Rion Shield? No, I ain’t seen it. But I hear that Desaix sold off some of his plunder to Grieth.

@Intro 
Alm: So this is the Zofian Sluice Gate... It’s massive!
Lukas: Indeed it is. And were it to collapse, the damage would be more massive still.
Alm: Then we need to get it open before it’s too late.

@Battle 
Tatarrah: Heh heh... So the Deliverance finally DELIVER themselves to me...
Alm: Are you Tatarrah?
Tatarrah: The one and only. ermit me to introduce my new servant, as well...
Delthea: ......
Alm: That girl...
Tatarrah: Go, Delthea! Put the fear of Duma back into these faithless fools. Smite them with your aura!

Alm: Aaah!
Delthea: ENEMIES OF TATARRAH...MUST...DIE.
Clive: Alm, what are you doing? Snap out of it! Strike her down before she ends you!
Alm: No! I promised Luthier I would bring his sister home safe.
Clive: But Alm, you’re going to—
Alm: Everyone, stay clear of Delthea’s magic! And whatever you do, do NOT kill her! That’s an order!
Luthier: Alm! If we eliminate Tatarrah, that should release his hold on my sister. I beg of you—please help her!

@Battle-Recruit 
Delthea: YOU HAVE DEFIED TATARRAH. I SHALL GIVE YOU DEATH.

Delthea: Ah... What am I...doing here? Luthier, are you there? It...it hurts...

@Boss 
Tatarrah: Heh heh heh... You imbeciles think yourselves a match for the mighty Tatarrah? Such a dire misjudgment cannot go uncorrected.

Tatarrah: Wh-what...? Impossible... Father Dumaaa... Aaargh...

@Battle 
Delthea: ...Huh? What am I doing here? LUTHIER! Brother, are you there?!

@Boss 
Lawson: Zofian dullards... I’ll dismantle you limb by limb!

Lawson: So this is the end... Forgive me, sire...

Gazelle: You have taken your last step in this realm. Now prepare to visit the next!

Gazelle: To die at the hands of worthless vermin... How shameful...

@Dialogue 
Alm: Just imagine how many generations these massive ruins have stood witness to. The dusty air carries more than the scent of broken, rusty iron; it’s like I’m breathing in centuries of history. And yet, I can see the signs of men of ill intent having come and gone with no regard for the place at all.

@Conversation 
Girl: Aaah! Oh, it was so awful!

@Dialogue 
Rudolf: Back so soon, Berkut?
Berkut: Sire, I was merely—
Rudolf: Are the tales true? You challenged the Deliverance for sport and lost?
Berkut: ...Forgive me, Uncle. They proved to be more skilled than I first imagined.
Rudolf: Hmm...
Jedah: What a most distressing turn of events. Our own Lord Berkut, broken by a band of farmers and cowhands. Did you mean to drag your knights’ honor through the dung whilst playing?
Berkut: Hold your tongue! You are a servant to our house, and you dare insult Rigel’s finest? It’s far more sensible for clods such as you to stay cowering in your robes.
Jedah: You forget that we answer to none but Duma, father of all Rigel. Though I may be a servant, it is certainly not to you. We shall see who cowers in the end.
Berkut: What are you implying?
Jedah: Emperor Rudolf, allow me to put your heart at ease. It is true that the Deliverance is nearing the sluice gate at our border. However, it is guarded by Tatarrah, one of the Duma Faithful’s finest arcanists. And as I understand it, he has come across a most interesting toy. I have the utmost faith he will make short work of those rebels.
Berkut: ...Sire!
Rudolf: What now, Berkut?
Berkut: Tatarrah may yet fail. Permit me to take my men to the border. If the Deliverance does break past the sluice, they must reckon with me!
Rudolf: Mmm...
Berkut: This time, I will smash their puny rebellion once and for all. I swear it! You must give me one last chance!
Rudolf: ...Very well. If they try to set foot on our land, they are to pay dearly. Am I understood?
Jedah: What silliness. The rebels will be dead long before they reach the border. Heh heh heh...
Berkut: *grumble*

Berkut: Urgh...
Rinea: Berkut, my lord. Have you finished your report to the emperor?
Berkut: Yes. We march for the border.
Rinea: Again? But we only just returned home.
Berkut: It was my choice—I had to beg the emperor for a chance at redemption. All because of that maggot, Alm! Because of him, I had to sit there while that snake Jedah spat venom at me... I will make him pay for this disgrace a hundredfold!
Nuibaba: Why, Lord Berkut. What grieves you?
Berkut: Ugh, Nuibaba. Not you...
Nuibaba: These halls have been dark without your unique fire to light them, my lord. I shall treasure this meeting when I return to my post on Fear Mountain. Master Jedah honors me. ...Yet I hear he has not done the same for you. Perhaps because of your...embarrassing loss at the hands of those rebel scum?
Berkut: You Faithful are in dire need of a lesson on how to speak to nobility.
Nuibaba: And I am certain you would be a most fearsome teacher. Regardless, you wrong me, Lord Berkut. I merely wish to aid you.
Berkut: Heh. How could YOU help ME? All of you claw at the heels of your god while ignoring his first teaching. He wished for men to be strong! Not a pack of supplicating fools.
Nuibaba: So you do not need our power? ...I see. Then I pray you fare well in your battle at the border. For should you lose... well, I doubt your uncle would give you a third chance. Or is this the fourth?
Berkut: ......
Nuibaba: For all your stubborn words, you have some wisdom. You have seen what the Faithful are capable of in battle. I know it. Father Duma’s power is vast, and not to be looked down upon. Yes, it’s true—Marla and Hestia both. In turn, the Father rewarded Lord Jedah with incredible magic.
Rinea: His own daughters? How dreadful!
Nuibaba: Do you see now, Lord Berkut? Come to my abode...
Berkut: ...Never. Victory over Alm would mean nothing if not won by my own hand.
Nuibaba: So prideful! ...Very well. But at least allow me to give you this.
Berkut: What is this? ...A mirror?
Nuibaba: One filled with my sorcery. Of course, I believe you when you say you have no need for such...tricks. But one day you may find yourself cornered and without recourse. If that day comes, shatter the mirror. I don’t need such baubles...
Nuibaba: Are you certain?
Berkut: ......
Nuibaba: Think of it as a safeguard, if that helps. Something...just in case. Hee hee hee...

@Recruit-Conversation 
Delthea: *gasp* Luthier! Brother!
Luthier: Delthea! Thank heavens you’ve returned to your senses.
Delthea: Hmm? What’s that supposed to mean? Whatever game you’re playing, Lu, I won’t fall for it this time! (pauses) Wait! Tatarrah was CONTROLLING me? Eeeeew! I am SO sorry! I must have been a real handful. But I swear I don’t remember any of it.
Luthier: It’s all right, Delthea. All that matters is that you’re safe and back with us.
Delthea: I’m sorry I worried you, Lu. Good thing the Deliverance came along, huh? Yup! Thanks, Deliverance. So if Lu is sticking with you guys, I get to come too, right? I’m pretty darned tough, you know. I’ll give all your enemies what-for!

Delthea: WHAT?! Aw, come on! Why not? Well, don’t come crawling back to me later. ...Or, you know, do.

Delthea: Aha! I knew it! You need me. ...Say you need me. I wanna hear it!

Delthea: Oh! You’re those folks from before. What’s going on? I can’t remember a thing. ...... Wait, Tatarrah was CONTROLLING me? Eeeeew! I am SO sorry! I must have been a real handful. Well, anyway, my name is Delthea. It’s super nice to meet you! Hey, but you look like you could use my help. Want me to tag along?

Delthea: WHAT?! Aw, come on! Why not? Well, don’t come crawling back to me later. ...Or, you know, do.

Delthea: Aha! I knew it! You need me. ...Say you need me. I wanna hear it!

@Dialogue 
Alm: Ha ha. Delthea sure isn’t short on energy, is she?
Luthier: I know. She’s simply incorrigible. She was spoiled growing up, and now look at her. She just runs amok! I feel your pain...
Alm: Well, I admire how close you are. I never had anything like that. I’m glad you’re a team again.
Luthier: It’s appreciated, Alm. But there aren’t words enough to thank you proper, so I’ll speak with action. From here on out, sire, I am your most loyal man.
Alm: Yeah, maybe let’s not have any of the whole “sire” thing.
Luthier: Ha ha ha! And why not? You’re our king, aren’t you?
Alm: *sigh* I wish Luthier hadn’t said that...
Clive: Alm?
Alm: Hello, Clive.
Clive: I just wanted to say... Fine work there, rescuing the maiden as you did.
Alm: What’s this? Are you maybe, possibly admitting that I did the right thing?
Clive: Heh heh. I am as shocked as you. It appears you are more fit to be king than I will ever be.
Alm: Oh no. Don’t YOU start!
Clive: Unlike you, Alm, I have been too willing to put people’s lives on the line. I stand by my belief that a commander must put reason before emotion. But failing to rescue Mathilda or my sister was cowardice, not reason. The truth is, I chose not to act for fear it would undermine my authority.
Alm: Stop it, Clive. You’re no craven.
Clive: Aren’t I? Just look at what you did in my stead. I criticized you roundly for diverting our army to save one person. But you did it anyway because you have something I do not—strength of heart. You understand what is precious and fight for it no matter the cost. Clive, I don’t know what to say...

@Conversation 
Man: Open the sluice gate? Hah! Impossible! We’d flood the bloody continent. Someone has to open the sluice at the Temple of Mila first.

@Dialogue 
Man: Now that the temple sluice is open, we can open the gate here as well. ...Still, I do find it curious. Only members of the Zofian royal family can open the sluice at the temple.
Alm: Are you serious?
Man: Makes you wonder if Princess Anthiese is alive after all. Hah! It would make for a fine story, that’s for sure! Oh my, yes. Ha ha ha!
Alm: Anthiese... Did a member of the royal family really open the gate? Celica, are you...

Jedah: So, they’ve opened the sluice. This is a fortuitous and most welcome turn of events. That feisty girl is certain to come looking for Mila... and when she does, I shall be waiting to scoop her up! Perhaps I might even go greet her myself... Heh heh heh...

@Narration 
Through the combined efforts of Alm and Celica, the empire’s plans to flood Zofia were thwarted. The arc of her destiny now clear, Celica embraced her identity and set forth. Meanwhile, Alm, having learned his friend was in truth Zofia’s Princess Anthiese, renewed his own oath to defend Zofia from the Rigelian Empire. However, a dark creature had his own plans for these fated children who bore the Brand...

/***EOF***/
@Dialogue 
Mycen: Well done, Alm. We’ll end today’s training here. Your swordsmanship has come a long way. I’ve always known you had talent.
Alm: You really think so? You’re not just saying that, are you, Grandfather?
Mycen: Either I’m getting old or you’re getting better—and we both know I’m not old.
Alm: Ha! Well, good. Then that means you’re ready to let me travel outside the village.
Mycen: Hmph. Don’t misconstrue my words, boy. The rule still stands.
Alm: But why?! I’m not a child anymore. You just said I can fend for myself! If I meet with any dangers, I’ll have my sword and my wits.
Mycen: Alm, that’s not what this is about.
Alm: Then what IS it about?
Mycen: Alm...
Alm: Look, I’ve heard from the others. I know the drought’s made Zofia a scary place. People are starving, and many have turned to thievery and plunder. Brigands loot villages for a mere sack of grain, and soon they’ll be at OUR door! And don’t think I haven’t heard what the Rigelian army has been up to. They’ve been crossing the border for years in violation of the Divine Accord. And with that sacred bond broken, now the Terrors have resurfaced as well...
Mycen: ...All true.
Alm: Zofia is full of innocent people who are looking for help. Please, Grandfather. I want to make a difference in a world bigger than a handful of houses. I want to see all the amazing places you’ve told me about— that Celica told me about!
Mycen: Suppose you do set forth with your sword and your wits. So what?
Alm: ......
Mycen: Will the grand story of your life be how you met the end of a brigand's axe? Before you dream of changing the world, learn your damned place in it, and no more talk of leaving.
Alm: ...What's his problem?! Why teach me to use a sword if you’re not going to let me fight? Every day in this place is exactly the same as the next. I know I’m meant for more than this! But you have to let me find it!

Alm: Huh? What's all the commotion? It’s coming from the gates. Hmm...

Lukas: Good day. You must be Sir Mycen's grandson. Alm, was it? My name is Lukas. I fight for the Deliverance.
Alm: The "Deliverance"? What's that? Aren't you one of the Knights of Zofia? The king's knights?
Lukas: Oh, I see. I suppose that means word hasn't yet reached your village. In that case, please forgive me for heralding such dark news, but... King Lima IV is dead. He met his end some days ago at the hands of Chancellor Desaix.
Alm: What? You're saying it was regicide?!
Lukas: I fear so. It seems Desaix sold Zofia to the Rigelian Empire along with his soul. No doubt they promised him lands. Perhaps even a title. Upon Lima’s death, the chancellor and the Rigelian army seized Zofia Castle and began to visit unspeakable injustices upon the king’s people. Sir Clive—of the Knights of Zofia you mentioned—would have none of it. He formed an army to free us from Rigel and named it the Deliverance. However, we are outmatched and fast losing this war. We need a hero’s aid. And so I have come to the home of one of Zofia's greatest heroes: Sir Mycen.
Lukas: Do you see, Alm? Sir Clive would not have sent me were it not urgent. Will you take me to see your grandfather?
Alm: Y-yes, of course.

Gray: Good goblets... I knew Zofia was in hot water, but is this guy serious?
Tobin: So there's going to be a war?
Kliff: There already is one, from the sound of things.
Faye: But that’s... that's awful! If Sir Mycen rides off to war, what'll happen to Alm?
Kliff: You got me.

Lukas: *sigh*
Alm: Lukas! Were you able to speak with my grandfather? What did he say?
Lukas: He said no. Sir Mycen made it clear he has no intention of joining the Deliverance.
Alm: What? But he's ridiculously strong! He could defeat some stuffy chancellor with his eyes closed! Why would he refuse when so many people are suffering?
Lukas: I cannot speak to Sir Mycen's thinking, but it seems we misplaced our hopes. I'll have to return to our hideout and bring Sir Clive the ill news. Perhaps Mycen has simply grown too old for the battlefield.
Alm: ......!
Lukas: It was good meeting you, Alm. I must be on my way. Thank you again for your assistance.
Alm: He's not old... He’s tougher than men half his age!

Alm: Lukas, wait!
Lukas: Alm? What is it?
Alm: I'll go. I'll join the Deliverance.
Lukas: You?
Tobin: Alm, what the hell?! You can't do that! ...Wait, CAN he do that?
Gray: I'll admit, you fight like a beast and they’d be lucky to have your sword, but this isn't sparring with your gramps, Alm. You're volunteering to go to war!
Alm: I know what it is. And if Grandfather won't do it, then I’ll do it for him. Consider my sword as his.
Lukas: Alm, I understand how you feel, but—
Alm: Sir Mycen has been teaching me to use a blade since I was a boy. I've received tutelage in military tactics, medicine, weather, terrain... I know as much about war as any man who has never seen one can. Let me fight for you with my grandfather's gifts. I’ll prove he's no cowardly old man. He’s a warrior who trains warriors.
Lukas: Hmm... That might just work.
Alm: Huh? Then you mean...!
Kliff: Oh, come ON! You can’t be serious!
Lukas: Why not? Alm presents a good case. He has a hero's blood in him. ...And clearly a hero's fire. His presence is sure to raise the troops' morale. And for my part, I'm curious to see what a self-proclaimed warrior can do. Especially now that he’ll be doing it for the Deliverance.
Alm: Thank you, Lukas... You won't regret this!
Gray: I've seen a lot of cake-taking in my day, but this REALLY takes the cake!
Faye: Alm, you should back out of this. It's far too dangerous! If anything were to happen to you, I'd... I mean... Just don't do it, okay?!
Alm: I'm sorry, Faye, but I’ve made up my mind. But...maybe all of you could come with me?
Faye: Er, what?
Kliff: Splendid idea. Maybe we could all get impaled on the same lance.
Alm: I'm just saying we could do it together. ...Fighting, I mean. Not the lance. Grandfather trained all of us, right? Not just me. You already know how to use a sword and a bow. So what’s the problem?
Tobin: Alm, are you insane? We were sparring with wooden fences and tree trunks! They don’t hit back!
Gray: Oh, sod it all. I’m not as bright as I’d like to think I am, so, uh...count me in!
Tobin: Gray! Not you too?!
Gray: Me too, Tobi-poo. It’s better than waiting for Rigel to reach Ram and kill "slash" enslave us. Might as well bring the fight to them.
Tobin: But you’re gonna— I mean, once they— [in frustration] ...Ugggh!
Lukas: You have my thanks, Gray. And the Deliverance welcomes you. In the end, we need every able fighter we can get. There will be much to learn, but I can teach you a great deal in battle. And you’ll be given a proper wage, of course.
Tobin: Wait. You mean we get paid? As in, actual money?
Lukas: Of course. Our soldiers work hard and sacrifice much. We would be remiss not to offer compensation.
Tobin: I've got little brothers and sisters who could use that gold... Ma and Pa struggle to make ends meet, but if there’s a way to help... Hmm...
Alm: Tobin, you don't have to go if you don’t want to. Why don't you all take a little time to think about it? Let's split up for now and meet back here later. I need to go thank my grandfather and say good-bye.

Alm: Grandfather, I'm home! Do you have a minute? There's something I need to speak with you about... [noticing that nobody is responding] ...Grandfather? Hmm, where is he? Grandfather...? Grandfather!

Tobin: ...Ah! There he is. Alm, over here!
Alm: Tobin! Does this mean you’re coming with us?
Tobin: Sure am! I could tell Ma and Pa were worried, but I think they'll understand. Listen, everyone, try not to be amazed when I show Alm up on the battlefield.
Gray: You know they don't pay extra for that, right, moneybags?
Lukas: There’s nothing wrong with fighting for coin. Many people do. We don't have any rule stating one's reasons must be noble. Now then, Alm. Were you able to say good-bye to your grandfather?
Alm: I tried, but...I couldn’t find him.
Lukas: Well, that IS vexing. I suppose we could tarry here a bit longer if you—
Alm: It's all right. Let’s go.
Lukas: Oh? Are you certain?
Alm: I can write him a letter. Come on, we can’t wait forever.
Lukas: So be it. I’ll defer to your judgment.

Tobin: Alm, are you sure about this?
Alm: Am I sure about what?
Tobin: Not saying good-bye to your grandfather. My ma and pa have all my brothers and sisters to look after them. I mean, sure, they’ll miss me— or I hope they will, at any rate— but family will help them get by, you know? But all Sir Mycen has for kin is you, and all you have is him.
Alm: I know. But considering he's never let me take one step outside the village, I doubt I could have talked him into letting me join an army. Not that it would have changed things either way—I HAVE to go. Not just to prove him as a teacher, but to prove myself to me.
Gray: Well, you've always wanted to put Ram behind you, right? This is your big chance! Your first adventure writ large! We'll call it Alm's Epoch! Or maybe... The Tale of Gray! ...Plus That One Guy.
Alm: Heh. I don't think so. Although I admit there might be a little something to what you’re saying. It’s almost as if I feel someone calling out to me.
Gray: ...So you really have gone crazy then. Welp, it’s been nice knowin' ya!
Alm: Heh. Look, I know how it sounds. But it’s the truth.
Tobin: Do you think it's Celica?
Alm: What? Celica? Where the heck did THAT come from?
Tobin: Oh, please. You two were inseparable while she was here. You barely made any time for us!
Alm: I guess that’s true...
Alm: Maybe it is her. Celica, are you the one who’s been calling me? I know that you’re out there... I just don’t know where. But I can feel it. I hope this journey will bring us together again...
Lukas: First, we should make for the Southern Outpost. Desaix's men hold it for now, but my fellow in the Deliverance have been fighting to reclaim it. The Deliverance hideout lies beyond the outpost. We'd best prepare ourselves for a long journey.

@Conversation
Woman: Well, if it isn't Alm! You all finished with today's training? I still remember when you were only THIS tall, and now look at you. Sir Mycen has certainly made a strong young man out of you. I say "Sir" Mycen, but the story is your grandfather was once a famous general. General Mycen! Ha! I always wondered why such a fellow would end up here. Then again, the woods around Ram have become dangerous as of late. Perhaps it's for the best that we have him—and YOU—to keep us safe!
Young Woman: *sigh* What I wouldn't give for some food. It’s been years since we’ve had a proper harvest. Can’t grow much without rain... Why has Mila forsaken us? What’s happened to the Earth Mother? She's killing us by withholding her blessings. The Rigelian Empire will seize our lands and we’ll be too weak to resist... You've heard how well trained their soldiers are, haven’t you? We’ve never toiled or fought for a thing, and we’re about to pay for it...
Young Man: It's good to know our plight has the nobility so grief-stricken. King Lima dances at the end of Chancellor Desaix's puppet strings. The king would rather eat grapes and frolic in a seraglio than actually rule. It's no wonder the kingdom’s being torn apart by rebellion after rebellion. I wish someone would come along and save us from ourselves already. ...What's that? The Mother Mila? Pah! Like I'd waste my prayers on a goddess as useless as her.

Tobin: Alm! Hey. This fellow's here to see Sir Mycen. He was just about to tell us more.

Gray: Sorry, pal, but I still can’t trust a man in full armor. Keep one hand on your hilt while you talk to this guy, yeah?

Tobin: A knight—can you believe it? What's he doing in OUR village? You'd have to practically ride off the edge of the map to find this place!

Kliff: He's sure come a long way just to find a whole lot of nothing... Whatever he’s here for, I hope he hasn't brought any trouble with him.

Faye: Alm! How was sword practice? Everything go okay? Sir Mycen is far too hard on you... I hope you don't have any new bruises!

Lukas: Take all the time you need, Alm. You should pay your respects to Sir Mycen.

Young Man: I heard what the knight said, but it sounds like a load of horse plop to me. Everyone knows it’s Zofia's fault that Rigel invaded in the first place. King Lima refused to help the Rigelian Empire during their famine, remember? And we all know the emperor didn't take too kindly to THAT little slight. Such a shame. The kingdom and the empire had been getting along so well. The king may be dead, but his choices live on. Ain't that always the way of it?

Woman: My word. Can you believe it? The king—murdered! What do you suppose happens now? He has no heirs, you know. Not anymore, I mean. They say Chancellor Desaix himself murdered all of ’em in cold blood! Anyway, hope this "Deliverance" knows who they’ll be delivering to that throne.

Man: Alm, is it true you're leaving the village? You’ll be sorely missed. Just be careful, hear? The woods outside Ram are dangerous enough... but once you’re through them, you’ll hit Fleecer’s Forest. The place is crawling with brigands. No one gets through that wood alive...

Greedy Old Man: Ram Village used to be known across the kingdom for its magnificent wine, but alas, it's been ages since anyone made a new batch. Valentia's fanciest nobles would send orders for Ram wine from far and wide. If there are any bottles left, they’re like to be aged to perfection by now. A wine that mature would taste absolutely incredible! I'd give anything for one more glass before Mother Mila calls me home...

Greedy Old Man: What I wouldn’t give for a bottle— no, even just a GLASS of Ram wine!

Greedy Old Man: This aroma! Berry... Leather... Straw...This is Ram wine for true! Thank you. You’ve made an old man very happy this day, so you have. ...Here. I was saving this to go with the wine, but I want you to have it.

Greedy Old Man: Oh, the callow rudeness of youth! You whippersnappers have no manners!

Greedy Old Man: As a little thank-you, let me share some news I heard. If you follow the left-hand wall in the Thieves' Shrine, you'll find a tunnel. Hidden back there is a treasure chest— but also check the jars around it! One of them contains a secret bauble I hid there when I was young. If it’s still there and you can find it, it’s all yours.
Greedy Old Man: Thank you again for bringing me that Ram wine.

Indignant Woman: I was ACCOSTED on the way back from the capital the other day! I ran from those brigands until my sides were ready to split. So undignified! And while I'm happy to be alive, those thugs stole everything I bought. Oh, I never should have gone at all! You MUST go teach those ruffians some manners. I’ll make it worth your while! They should really feel it, so make sure to give 20 of them a sound thrashing! That will teach them to mess with the likes of me. Hmph! They’re holed up in the awful Thieves' Shrine. As if they'd be anywhere else!
Indignant Woman: Get going already! Those 20 brigands aren't going to thrash themselves!

Indignant Woman: Ooo! You look like someone who has just made 20 brigands' lives miserable. I feel so much better already. Who knew revenge was so great?! Well, I told you I would make it worth your while, so here you go.

Indignant Woman: I hope I can call on you again if MORE brigands decide to mug me.

@Recruit-Conversation
Kliff: You know, I guess I don't mind going along. The Deliverance is fighting all across Zofia, right? Well, I've always wanted to see the world, and now's my chance. ...All I have to do is not get killed. Easy, right?

Kliff: Fine. Have it your way. Not like I was itching to leave anyway.

Kliff: Huh? Now you want me to come with you after all? Make up your mind!

Faye: I'm coming too! I’m staying with you no matter what! End! Of! Discussion!

Faye: You... don’t want me? Oh. I... I see. Then I guess I'll stay here and just be... sad... forever... But you’d better come back safe, you hear me?!

Faye: Oh! Yes? Does this mean I can come with you? Pleeeeeease?

@Intro 
Brigand: Oy, travelers! 'Fraid I'm gonna have to ask ya to stop right there. These here woods belong to me and my boys, see? So if ya wanna be passin' through, yer gonna have to pay the toll. Ha ha!
Lukas: Well. That didn't take long.
Alm: *gasps* Brigands already? But it's only been minutes—we're still within sight of the gates!
Lukas: Worse surprises than this await us, Alm. Is everyone ready?
Alm: Yes. Come on, let's clear this rabble out!

@Battle 
Alm: Follow me. I'll clear us a path!
Lukas: Alm, if I may? You mustn't rush headlong into battles on your own. Without experience, your friends will never grow into accomplished fighters. Trust them. Give them something to do. ...At least let them deal the final blow.
Alm: Right. That's good advice. I'll give it a try!

@End 
Alm: Yes! We won!
Lukas: That was some fine swordsmanship, Alm. I can see you have more than a bit of your grandfather in you.
Alm: You think so?

@Intro 
Lukas: Hm? Hold, everyone.
Alm: What is it, Lukas?
Brigand: Hrrm...
Alm: More brigands? It seems the rumors were no exaggeration.
Lukas: Based on their numbers, I surmise they must have a hideout nearby. But we can ill afford to pick fights with every cutpurse and rogue we encounter. Let's sit back and lay low until they depart.
Brigand: Didja get a look at the wench we nabbed this morning? Hoo-ee!
Brigand #2: She'll certainly add some color to that run-down old shrine! Gar har har!
Brigand: Gar har har! She's prettier'n the boss, that's for sure!
Alm: What? They've taken a prisoner?!
Lukas? Alm? Let's just be calm and... Alm?! Alm, wait, don't—
Alm: Hold it, you lecherous pigs!
Brigand #2: Huh? Who the hell are you?
Alm: Release the woman you're holding at once, or else!
Brigand: Bwa ha ha! Or else WHAT?
Brigand #2: Ya must really want a knife in the belly if yer slingin' taunts at the likes of us.
Lukas: So much for laying low... To arms, everyone!

@Battle 
Lukas: Look over there. They have an archer. He can strike from a distance, so we must plan our approach carefully. Whoever goes after him needs to finish him quickly, or be ready for a reprisal. If you're not strong enough to take an arrow or two, stay well away.

@End 
Lukas: *sigh* Well, I suppose that counts as our good deed for the day.
Alm: Sorry, Lukas. My legs were moving before I had the chance to even think.
Lukas: Valor is nothing to be sorry for. Now come. Let's find this prisoner they spoke of. They mentioned a shrine, yes? It must be nearby.

@Dialogue 
Alm: What's that shrine?
Gray: Oh yeah, guess you wouldn't know since you've been stuck in the village. Shrines like this were built by folks so they had a place to worship Mila, but famine and other problems kinda put a damper on most Zofians' piety. Now they're mostly just home to brigands and the like.
Alm: Then the woman who was taken captive must be inside...

Brigand: Eek! Stay away from me! I'm only the stupid watchman! I just WATCH things! Eeeek!
Alm: The enemy could be anywhere. We need to proceed carefully.
Alm: The dank smell of mold permeates the shrine.

@Boss 
Brigand Boss: Huh? What do you scrawny little rats want? You got nerve bargin' in here just as I was gettin' to the main event. Kill 'em, boys! ...And be creative about it.

Brigand Boss: Urgh. Who do you think you are? Saving one wench won't make this world any less of a pit!

Brigand Boss: Argh! Damn...you...

@Dialogue
Alm: Miss, are you all right? Say something!
???: Nnngh... Wh-who are you? How did I get here?
Alm: You're in a shrine. Some brigands kidnapped you and took you here. Don't worry, they're gone. We dealt with them before they could do you any harm.
???: I see. Thank you, sir. After those ruffians seized me, I passed out... Ugh... I don't want to think about it.
Alm: What's your name?
Silque: I am Silque. I hail from a priory far to the east, on the island of Novis.
Gray: So, uh, Silque... What brings a woman of the cloth like you so far from home?
Silque: *gasp* My mission! I nearly forgot! I must find a man named Sir Mycen. Are we far from Ram Village?
Alm: Are you serious? Ram's our home! Sir Mycen is my grandfather.
Silque: What? You're Sir Mycen's...grandson? ......! May I see that mark on your left hand?
Alm: What, this? Sure. Pretty strange for a birthmark, huh? And that's not even the weirdest part. A long time ago, a girl in my village had the same mark on her hand.
Silque: So you're the one sh—
Alm: Huh? What is it, Silque?
Silque: Sir Alm, I have something for you. Here. Please, take this.
Alm: All right, but...what is it?
Silque: It's called Mila's Turnwheel. It's a relic that contains some of the Earth Mother's power. I believe it will be of great use to you.
Alm: Are you sure? You were supposed to give this to my grandfather, right?
Silque: No. This is definitely for you. Now that you have left your village and embarked upon an auspicious journey, the Turnwheel will become a vital tool during the trials ahead.
Alm: Okay... Well, thank you. I promise to take good care of it. By the way, how do you use it?
Silque: You don't use it. It uses you. When the time is right, the Turnwheel will give you a sign.
Alm: O...kay? I'm not sure I understand, but I'll take your wor—
Silque: Ah! It appears that Mother Mila already wishes to show you something.
Alm: The Turnwheel... It's glowing... What's happening?!
Alm: Where am I...? That's Zofia Castle! This is our kingdom? What happened here? Is the Deliverance too late?!
Alm: AAAAAH!
Silque: Sir Alm, what did you see?
Alm: It was... It was so clear! Silque, it was horrible!
Silque: Be calm. What you saw in the vision is not the present. The Mother is either telling you what could be...or what once was. Her power is sight.
Alm: So the vision is something that's going to happen?
Silque: Something that COULD happen. If the vision was ill-boding, perhaps it was a sign—a sign that the Mother wishes for you to take action in order to prevent it.
Alm: ...... (distressed breathing)

@Recruit-Conversation 
Silque: Ah, Sir Alm. In my travels, I have witnessed the sorry state of our kingdom. With no goddess to bless them and no king to rule, most Zofians are at a loss. And I, for one, refuse to stand by and watch them suffer. I would ask for permission to accompany you on your quest.

Silque: Very well. That was not the answer I was hoping for, but I shall respect your decision.

Silque: Yes? Do you require my assistance?

@Conversation 
Mila's Servant: Welcome, child of fate. I am a servant of Mila. Present to me those who are worthy. By my master's will shall I bestow upon them new power.

@Intro 
Lukas: Hmm? Alm. Look up there.
Alm: Huh? That uniform...!
Enemy Soldier: ......
Alm: That looks like a Zofian soldier. Is he one of Desaix's men?
Lukas: Yes. We'll see more of them, now that we're nearing the Southern Outpost. It seems Desaix's men have hired brigands to hold the valley for them. This will be a tricky fight.
Alm: ...I'm ready.

@Battle 
Lukas: Take a closer look at that soldier. He's armed with a leather shield. It'll be difficult to land blows on him. We could take the shield for ourselves... IF we manage to defeat him.

@End 
Alm: The valley's clear... Still, that wasn't easy.
Lukas: You have my thanks. We'll soon reach the Southern Outpost, which is under Deliverance control. Once we've rejoined our comrades, the fights ahead will become easier.
Alm: Comrades, huh? I wonder what they're like? I'm excited to meet them!
Ally Soldier: Ngh... S-Sir Lukas? It's good to see you made it back safely.
Lukas: I recognize you. You were stationed at the outpost. Has something happened? Why are you here?
Ally Soldier: Forgive us, Sir Lukas, but... The tides turned after you left, and we were forced to abandon the outpost. I'm afraid Lady Clair was taken captive. Desaix's men hold her there even now.
Lukas: What? Clair! Gods, how could this happen?!
Alm: Lukas...
Lukas: This is my fault. Lady Clair is new to military command. I should have left her in more experienced hands.
Alm: Don't blame yourself, Lukas. Sir Clive sent you to Ram Village, right? You didn't have a choice. If blame lies with anyone, it's him.
Lukas: ......
Alm: Regardless, standing here accomplishes nothing. We need a plan. I assume this Clair person is still alive, right? In that case, we just have to take back the Southern Outpost and save her!
Tobin: Oh hey, that's a great id— Wait, WHAT?! No! How are WE supposed to reclaim a fortress from trained royal soldiers?!
Alm: I don't know, but we have to find a way. Otherwise, our journey is already over. Here and now, we make our decision. Will we live our lives as simple villagers? ...Or will we fight on as soldiers of the Deliverance?!
Tobin: But Alm...
Gray: Okay, good speech! Hear, hear. ...What've we got to lose? Let's do it.
Tobin: Gray!
Gray: Tobin! ...Listen, just stop and think about this. I know it's hard, but try. Clair is a GIRL. And if we save a GIRL... Eh? You follow?
Tobin: I can't believe you're the same man who mocks the fact that I fight for gold.
Gray: Yes, because it's gold. This is GIRLS. Don't you like girls?
Tobin: I mean, I admit they're...not bad?
Gray: You see? We speak the same language. So you're in, right?
Lukas: I don't know what to say... except "thank you." You're very brave to do this. The Deliverance is lucky to have you.
Alm: Same goes for you, Lukas.
Lukas: One thing, Alm... You may be right that some of the blame lies with Sir Clive... But please, tread soft with him regardless. Lady Clair is his younger sister. I'm sure no one's head is hanging lower than his own right now.
Alm: Oh. Lukas, I... I'm sorry. You're right.

@Battle 
Enemy Soldier: Who goes there? ...More rebels? Ha! Haven't you dogs learned your lesson yet?
Alm: We're not rebels... We're the Deliverance! Everyone! With me!
Lukas: Watch out. That archer is carrying a powerful bow. We should only send in capable—and cautious—units to deal with him.

@End 
Alm: We did it! The outpost is ours!
Lukas: Thank you, my brave friends. Thank you for everything. I know that my fallen comrades would say the same.
Alm: Oh, Lukas. I'm so sorry. But we'll have time to mourn later. Right now, we must find Lady Clair. She must be somewhere inside the outpost.

@Dialogue 
Lukas: Clair!
Clair: Lukas! You came to rescue me! Why, how simply gallant of you... Now extricate me from this filthy and unseemly cage at once!
Clair: You simply must remove me from this rat-infested hellhole at once!
Alm: That should do it!
Clair: You there! The boy will offer a lady his hand.
Alm: Who, me? ...Oh, uh, sorry.
Clair: Very good. I say, it DOES feel good to move about again. I thought I might never emerge from that disgusting pigsty. You have my thanks, er...
Lukas: This is Alm. He recently joined us in the Deliverance.
Clair: Oh! Well, how simply lovely. Welcome! I am Clair. They young man may address me as "Lady Clair," or "milady."
Alm: Um... It's a pleasure to meet you, milady.
Clair: So! From where do you hail, Alm?
Alm: Uh...I "hail" from a little place called Ram Village.
Clair: A village? You don't say! That's one of those places with all the cows and the barns and the fields, yes?
Alm: Um...yeah. Something like that.
Clair: My word! I hardly ever speak with villagers! What is it like to chase cows every day? I wager they bite, the nasty creatures. Hmm... And yet, you aren't smothered in manure. This is not what I pictured.
Alm: Right. Um...
Lukas: Clair, perhaps you should consider Alm's feelings in regards to his home.
Clair: His... Huh? Oh dear, have I done it again? It's as Clive constantly reminds me: "The Deliverance is not like the Knights of Zofia. Not every soldier in our ranks is noble, but we must treat them all as equals." The peasant must forgive his lady for this gauche breach of etiquette.
Alm: It's all right. The peasant—whose name is Alm—will get over it.
Clair: Oh, Alm! I can see you are truly kind. Might I ask you more about your village later? I'm ever so curious!
Alm: Of course.
Clair: Splendid! I've always wanted to know more about cows and pigs and such.
Alm: Yes, they're...they're amazing creatures...
Tobin: Woof! She's going to be a handful.
Gray: Yeah, I uh... *cough* That's what I'm hoping.
Tobin: Hmm...
Gray: Hey, what are you schemin'?
Tobin: Wh-what? Nothing!
Gray: Uh-huh...

@Conversation
Ally Soldier: Thank you for freeing us. I thought my time had come. You're new to the Deliverance, right? Then you'll want to hear this. They say Mother Mila has disappeared from her temple. That's why Rigel was able to break the Divine Accord, which was supposed to prevent them from ever invading Zofia. I don't know how much of it's true, but it's disturbing nonetheless.

@End 
Fernand: Clair! You're safe!
Clair: Oh! Good day, Fernand. And what brings you here?
Fernand: Need you even ask? When I heard you had been taken prisoner, I mounted my finest destrier and sped here at once. Sir Clive couldn't leave the hideout without its commander, of course. But I see I am a step behind regardless. Who is this rabble?
Alm: Um, are you talking about us?
Clair: They are not "rabble," Fernand. This boy is Alm. He is the grandson of Sir Mycen himself.
Fernand: Mycen's...grandson? Lukas, I demand to know the meaning of this! You were ordered to find the general himself, not some mewling child!
Lukas: Sadly, Sir Mycen was not so easily convinced. However, Alm and his friends have joined our cause in his stead.
Fernand: Is this some manner of folly to you, Lukas? Am I to be amused? Such baseborn curs cannot possibly aid our cause. The Deliverance has no place for brats with pitchforks.
Lukas: Fernand, you must listen to reason. These "curs" you so easily disparage fought valiantly for us. In fact, without Alm, we might not have retaken the Southern Outpost. I can vouch for their strength.
Fernand: Hah! As if the word of a backwater noble carries weight with me. Your entire house should be kissing the Knights of Zofia's feet!
Lukas: Ngh...
Alm: I think that's enough. You can say whatever nasty things about me you like. I'll get over it. But Lukas deserves your respect.
Fernand: I beg your pardon? Do I look like a man who listens to the opinions of peasants?
Clair: Then you can listen to me, because I happen to agree with him. Fernand, my brother already explained this to you, did he not?
Fernand: Sir Clive? What exactly did he explain?
Clair: A soldier's worth is not determined by the station of his birth. If we do not all fight together as one, then we will never defeat Desaix. Those are wise words. Unforgettable words! Desaix's forces already have us at hell, yet you would splinter us further?
Fernand: Rrr... You there! Boy!
Alm: ...That's me, I take it?
Fernand: Out of respect for Sir Clive, I will permit you to join the Deliverance. But you WILL learn your place! Now, Clair. Seeing as you are safe, you have no need for these people. Come, let us return. We must report this matter to Sir Clive at once.
Clair: I will do no such thing! I'm going with Alm.
Fernand: ...Very well. Do as you please.
Tobin: ...Wow, what a jerk! I've never met someone so rude!
Gray: I guess we've been spoiled by Lukas. He'd nearly convinced me that swinish knights are the exception, not the rule. But...that was a swine, all right. *snort* (pig noises)
Clair: You poor dears must be so upset. I apologize for the way he treated you.
Gray: Don't be silly. You don't have to lower yourself for a miserable human being like that.
Clair: Oh my...
Tobin: Oh, great. Here we go...
Gray: What? I have no idea what you're talkin' about.
Clair: Well, regardless...please don't think ill of Fernand. He wasn't always like this. The world...changed him.
Gray: Did...something happen to him?
Clair: ......
Lukas: We live in trying times. And some things that transpire are... difficult to put into words. In any case, we should be on our way.

Lukas: Well fought, everyone. The Deliverance's hideout is just a stone's throw away now. I'll send a messenger ahead to inform Sir Clive of our arrival. Let us make haste. I'm sure he'll be quite eager to meet you.

@Dialogue 
Clair: Alm, where are you going? My brother will be most eager to meet you at the hideout. I insist we go!
Python: Not so fast. Where do ya think yer goin'? Don't y'know whose halls these is?
Alm: Huh? But I thought this was the--
Lukas: That's enough, Python. There's no call to play at trickery with our new recruits.
Python: Ha ha ha! Heh, Lukas, you ginger stud. You still draw breath. I was worried Desaix's dogs might have punched your ticket to the boneyard. So this sack of guts here must be Sir Grandson.
Lukas: Yes, he's the one. Is Sir Clive about?
Python: Yup. Better shake your tail feathers-- he's been waiting for you.
Python: Oh hey, kid! I almost forgot.
Alm: Hm? What is it?
Python: Terrors roam these halls. You'd best tread carefully.
Alm: Terrors?! What are monsters like those doing in your hideout?
Python: Well, to be fair, they technically got here first. We're just sort of...borrowing their catacombs. Plus, Terrors spawn in greater numbers the closer you get to Mila's power. Cutting 'em down only makes room for new ones, so we just let 'em be. Why the long face, stud? Don't think you can handle a few creepie-crawlies? 'Cause if not, I dunno how you're planning to fight for the Deliverance. Aw, I'm just japin' ya. Get going, yeah? Oh, and hold your nose--Terrors stink.
Alm: Great... Their hideout is guarded by an army of the dead...

@Conversation 
Python: Go on. Sir Clive's in the chamber waaay in the back.

@Dialogue 
Alm: These sprawling catacombs were built as a resting place for Zofia's most distinguished families. But now their halls are clogged with the stench of the dead--rotten corpses who have risen again as Terrors.
Clive: Clair!
Clair: Brother!
Clive: It gladdens me to see you safe! I couldn't bear to lose you on top of everything else we have sacrificed.
Clair: You look so pale, Clive. Forgive me. You must have been worried sick. But I'm all right. Alm and the others arrived before true ill could befall me.
Clive: And you must be Alm. I've been looking forward to this meeting.
Alm: Y-yes, sir.
Clive: Ha ha ha. Please, be at ease. Such formalities are not required here. You saved the life of my dear sister. This makes you a friend. My name is Clive. And as you must already know, I lead the Deliverance. It's good to meet you, Alm.
Alm: L-likewise, Clive.
Gray: I can't believe it. That's THE Clive! In the flesh and everything!
Tobin: What, is he famous or something?
Gray: Tobin! I am sorely disappointed in you. Sir Clive captains the Knights of Zofia! He's the finest knight in all the realm! Seriously, man. Read a book.
Tobin: Okay, okay. He's clearly a big deal. But then why is the "finest knight in all the realm" LOSING the war?
Gray: Well, he's obviously... I mean, he... Shut up, Tobin.
Lukas: How have we been faring, Clive?
Clive: Not well, I fear. We lost many good men when the outpost fell. ...Too many. The morale of our troops has taken an ill turn in kind. I was hoping to present Sir Mycen to them to re-ignite their courage, but...
Alm: Please don't judge my grandfather. I know he had his reasons. Even if I don't know what they are. But I promise you that I'll fight every bit as hard as he would have. ...Or harder! I just don't want you to think that... I mean, he's not--
Clive: Peace, Alm. I understand... None here would dare think your grandfather craven. That being said, I would beg a boon of you. The same one I was hoping to ask of Sir Mycen, in fact.
Alm: Please, go on. If it's within my power, I'll do it.
Clive: Then I shall state it plain. I would like you to become the new leader of the Deliverance.
Alm: WHAAAT?! I mean...um...what? I'm not a leader!
Fernand: Clive! Have you taken leave of your senses?
Clive: This needs to happen, Fernand. You know it as well as I. It's true the Deliverance began as a group of like-minded Zofian Knights, but it's grown into an army where most of our volunteers are of common birth. We share a cause, but little else. I know not how to speak to their hearts. Sir Mycen began as a common soldier before rising to a knight and a count. His story resonates with these people. Do you not agree that his grandson is just the banner they would rally to?
Fernand: What fool would agree with that?! If some ungrateful peasant won't heed your command, you sweep him aside!
Clive: Think, Fernand! Are we so flush with soldiers that we can afford to drive able men away?
Fernand: Ngh...
Lukas: I, for one, think it's a fine idea.
Fernand: You too...?!
Lukas: Knights don't have a monopoly on skill, and Alm is as able a fighter as any. Clive has done all he can to hold the Deliverance together thus far, but if our ship is astray, then we must chart a new course. Alm is that course.
Fernand: I'll rip that traitorous tongue from your throat!
Lukas: Then you'll finally have the truth in your grasp! I lost friends at the Southern Outpost. Veteran men, yet dead all the same. We MUST adapt so we might end this war as quickly as possible.
Alm: Please, just...hold on a second. I know I said I would do anything in my power, but I can't--
Clive: I understand what you can and cannot do, Alm. My lieutenants and I would continue to handle day-to-day affairs. We only need you to do one thing: lead. You would be inspiring the troops and revitalizing the army. You are Sir Mycen's grandson. I know you to be capable of such.
Alm: I'm not so sure...
Clair: Please, Alm. For me. For all of us. My brother tries to hide it, but I know the anxiety takes its toll on him. You can relieve him of at least a portion of that burden.
Alm: I want to, but... ...... All right. If you think me worthy, then I won't let you down.
Clive: Are you certain? Then thank you, Alm. Thank you.
Alm: Just...please, keep your expectations low.
Clive: Ha! As you wish.
Clair: This could change everything... The boy will make a splendid leader! Simply splendid!
Lukas: Without a doubt.
Fernand: I've heard enough of this idiocy!
Clive: Fernand, what--
Fernand: I only joined this army because YOU were leading it! And now you want me to take orders from some wretched farmchild?
Clive: This is no mere farmchild, Fernand! He has Sir Mycen's blood!
Fernand: Mycen? Pah! Damn him and his blood! They may sing of him as a hero, but no one even knows what wench the man sprang from! His entire story is a disgrace to the Zofian nobility! You need to invoke the name of that old man to control your men? Pathetic.
Clive: Enough!
Fernand: I lost my taste for this long ago. We were supposed to be a band of noble knights. United in purpose! Upholding a tradition! Restoring the old order to Zofia! Now the Deliverance is full of baseborn serfs trying to lord over us. Like your lieutenant Forsyth. Or that Python--true to his name he is!
Clive: Both of them have proven themselves on the battlefield time and again! Are you suggesting I deny my men fair reward for their achievements? What incentive would they have then?! The damned army wouldn't function! Hear me, Fernand. Hear me well. I know you have your reasons for closing your heart to the common folk. But please, for the sake of our ideals, you MUST think beyond them.
Fernand: No, Clive. I will not. I would rather die than kneel to some whelp who was birthed in the hay. Today we part ways for good and all. I am finished with you and your "Deliverance." Farewell.
Clive: Fernand, wait--
Alm: Clive, shouldn't you go after him?
Clive: ...No. I knew this was coming--we've had no shortage of clashes lately. I cannot force him to see things as I do, so... Well, perhaps it's better this way.
Alm: Clive... I know it's not much in the way of comfort, but...I'll do my best.
Clive: Thank you, Alm. We shall march on Zofia Castle just as soon as you feel we are prepared. I suppose you must still have many questions about the Deliverance. Feel free to ask around to any of the soldiers here.

@Conversation 
Ally Soldier 1: We've received word that Emperor Rudolf's nephew is visiting Zofia Castle. Not only is the lad a general, but he's also first in line for the Rigelian throne. That's due to the Emperor not having children of his own, you see. Anyway, he's said to be tough as nails. I sure hope I don't have to face him!

Ally Soldier 2: Sir Clive's lover, Lady Mathilda, used to fight by his side in the Knights of Zofia. She was every inch as strong as him, and clever as an old cat, to boot. But Desaix took her captive, and now keeps her locked up in his fortress. He's made many attempts to use her as leverage to force our surrender. But still, Sir Clive refuses to submit. One Desaix will tire of these games, and then she'll be in peril most dire... Knowing this, Sir Clive grows less bold as the days pass. Who can blame him?

Ally Soldier 3: Fernand's hatred for commoners is understandable. The peasants living on his lands were starving 'cause of the drought. They blamed Fernand for not providing for them and stormed his manor. His family died during the attack. ...Truly, a terrible thing.

@Recruit-Conversation 
Forsyth: Greetings, friends. The Deliverance welcomes you. I am Forsyth, Sir Clive's lieutenant and advisor. Together, let us take back the castle and return Zofia to her people.

Forsyth: Sorry? Did you say "no"? Ah. I...I see. Well then...S-so be it. I shall stay here and stand watch over the hideout with honor and...um...

Forsyth: Yes? Have you reconsidered? It would gladden me to join you.

Python: Heading off, are we? Well, take care! Don't let the Terrors bite! ...Eh? Am I coming with you? Well, I COULD...but I don't HAVE to... Howzabout I just let you decide?

Python: Hey, it's your deal, pal. Good luck...'cause you'll need it!

Python: What? Whaaaaaat. If you want me to come, just say so. You're making this so awkward.

@Dialogue 
Clive: Onward to Zofia Castle. We must wrest the castle from the chancellor's grasp. Lead us well, Alm.
Alm: I'll do my best.

Desaix: Ah hah hah! I wonder who built this throne? It is marvelously comfortable! Why did I let it be wasted on that incompetent fool Lima for so long? Soon, the Rigelian Empire will finish its conquest of Valentia. And then I will rule from this throne as king of Zofia! But first, I must crush those worms in the rebel army. And worms they are... You squash the blasted things into the muck, yet still more take their place! And now they dare march on the castle? They will pay for this insult in blood! I must know what—or who—gave them this second wind...
Soldier: Forgive me, Chancellor Desaix. We’ve captured a rebel in the forest. It’s Lor... It’s Fernand, sir.
Desaix: What?! But Fernand is Clive’s right-hand man. Why would he be wandering the woods without a detachment?
Soldier: March, prisoner!
Fernand: Unhand me! I have cleansed myself of those rebel scum!
Desaix: What’s this? Am I to believe you have left your precious “Deliverance”?
Fernand: Deliverance... Pah!
Desaix: Yes, well. It seems you have a story to tell. My ears are yours, Sir Fernand.
Desaix: ...What? Mycen’s grandson?!
Fernand: Indeed. Clive has thrown all of our ideals at the feet of the unworthy. He’s made the boy a figurehead just to leverage some decrepit hero’s name. Well, I say damn them all! There. You have my story. Now kill me and be done with it.
Desaix: But this doesn’t make sense. Mycen didn’t have any... Ah... Now I see this for what it is. Rudolf, you villainous dastard...
Fernand: Huh?
Desaix: Silence! When I address you, you’ll know it. ...I have decided your fate, Fernand. Killing you would be...wasteful. Come with me. I will introduce you to your new master. A master more...befitting of your ideals.
Fernand: New master? Wait—explain yourself!

@Intro 
Alm: Zofia Castle... We’re finally here.
Clive: Thanks to you, Alm. You should hold your head high as you command us on this great day.
Alm: It will be a great day, won’t it? Fellow soldiers! Fight with me! Today, Zofia’s people reclaim her castle and her pride!

Berkut: So this is the so-called Deliverance. What a disheveled herd of clodhoppers!
Desaix: I couldn’t agree more. Find a comfortable seat, Lord Berkut. The Empire’s finest general need not trouble himself with such rabble. You may watch from on high as my finest troops cut them down like wheat.
Berkut: I may just take you up on that offer. Shall we, Rinea?
Rinea: I have no desire to see such bloodshed. War is horrible, and I will make no spectacle of it.
Berkut: Heh heh. I jest, my dear.
Desaix: Forgive me. I must take my leave.
Berkut: Yes, of course. I trust the dracoshield I lent will add to your already considerable strength?
Desaix: It is a fine gift, my lord. You honor me.
Berkut: *sigh* You. Knight. Fernand, was it?
Fernand: Yes, my lord.
Berkut: You said the name of the Deliverance’s new leader is “Alm,” correct? And that he is of common birth? There is no mistake in this?
Fernand: None, my lord. Clive and the other fools believe he is Mycen’s grandson...
Berkut: Hmph. What nonsense. One is born either noble or common. This destiny cannot be changed. Has a sheep any hope of leading wolves? No!
Fernand: *gasp* Yes! Yes, exactly! Truer words were never spoken, Lord Berkut!
Berkut: Still, I am surprised at Sir Clive. Tales of his exploits have spread as far as Rigel... How could so celebrated a leader make so amateur a mistake? The Deliverance has no future now. All of Zofia will soon belong to the Empire... Rinea!
Rinea: Yes, Lord Berkut?
Berkut: I have a promise to make you, my dear. I will succeed His Majesty Rudolf and become the next emperor. I shall rule over the Valentian continent as I was meant to. And you shall be my empress. Does this please you?
Rinea: I...do not have words...
Berkut: ...It has begun. I pray this Alm fellow makes the battle at least halfway entertaining.

@Battle 
Desaix: Hear me, worms of the rebel army! You have done well to make it this far... but you have no hope of defeating me! ...Now, Slayde! Take the cavalry and run down every last one of those wretches!

Desaix: What’s this? Slayde has been defeated? Damned rebels will rue this day. I must withdraw! The rest of you are ordered to hold the castle at all costs!

@Boss 
Desaix: Rebel scum... You can’t hope to touch me. So long as I have the dracoshield Lord Berkut gave me, I am invincible!

Desaix: Urgh! N-no... W-wait... You have the wrong...

Slayde: I recognize you... You’re those bumpkin brats from the village in Ram Woods.
Alm: Huh? ...This is the knight who tried to kidnap Celica!
Slayde: You whelps deprived me of a prize I most desperately needed. Hear me well, runts! My name is Slayde... and today, I in turn shall deprive you of your lives!

Slayde: I- impossible! This is neither the time nor place for me to die...

Slayde: D-don’t think you can gloat yet... You thought you defeated Desaix? Ha! That was just a double. The true chancellor has retreated to his fortress. And now it’s my turn. I’ve no intention of dying here with you maggots!

@End 
Berkut: Pathetic. The chancellor is all talk.
Fernand: What shall we do now, my lord?
Berkut: We cannot hold the castle with my detachment alone. We must retreat. Fernand, you stay with me. We’ll join up with our main force in the forest.
Fernand: Yes, my lord!
Berkut: ...You have made an impression, Alm. Yes you have.

Clive: Desaix’s forces are retreating...
Alm: You mean...we won?
Clive: Yes, Alm. We won. Zofia Castle can finally return to the hands of her own people!
Alm: We really did it... We did it! We freed Zofia!
Clair: Hee hee! The boy from Ram shall kiss my hand and thank me for securing this victory. Ha ha ha! A jest only, I assure you. You were wonderful, Alm. This victory proves you have what it takes to lead us.
Alm: This victory wasn’t mine alone. I share this glory with all of you.
Tobin: Sure, but hold on a second before we start throwing roses around. Desaix and Slayde both got away, remember?
Gray: Tobin, you sure know how to take a squat on someone’s big moment. Forget who got away! There’s still plenty of reason to celebrate.
Lukas: Gray is correct. True, it is deeply regrettable those two snakes managed to elude us. But regardless, we have retaken the castle—the symbol of her kingdom. Was this not the Deliverance’s primary goal?
Clive: Indeed, it was. I know this war will continue as long as the empire desires Zofia... but this victory is a sweet chalice, and right now, we should drink deep!
Alm: Clive couldn’t have said it better. We fought for this. We earned it. Now let’s take a moment to enjoy it.
Clive: So then! Shall we go inside? Our friends in the castle will be most eager to meet their deliverer.
Alm: Deliverer?! Come on, you make me sound like some kind of hero or someth— Hey, wait!

@Conversation 
Archer: Huzzah for the Deliverance! Thanks to you, the castle is finally rid of those imperial dastards. Oh, what a joy to watch them run... We’re finally free! You have my heartfelt thanks. Truly.

Man: The chancellor retreated to his fortress west of the northern forest. He’ll be beggin’ Rigel for help now, so he will! What a piece of filth, leavin’ his men behind to die in his stead...

Woman: They say all of King Lima’s children are dead now, so they do. Oh, but I’ve heard tale that one of ’em still lives... Her name was Anthiese. PRINCESS Anthiese! Juicy bit’a gossip that, eh? Story goes, the villa she lived in was set to blaze some ten or so years back. Folks thought she burned to cinders, but you know how tongues like to wag. Could be some brave soul up and saved her. Wonder where she ended up if so?

Young Woman: Princess Anthiese had a brother from a different mum, but they were still close. After that fire at the villa, however, neither body was found. I often dream that at least the princess managed to escape somehow...

Lady Cavalier: That mongrel Desaix stole the royal sword when he turned tail and ran. The Rigelian imperial household gave us that sword as a sign of friendship. I don’t know what use Desaix has for it. Oh, it’s a powerful sword, and no lie... but only in the hands of the right wielder. And that wielder isn’t him!

Soldier: The ridersbane here in the vault makes short work of mounted soldiers. But as it’s a lance, only knights and similar classes can wield it.

Man: General Mycen was a magificent man, but King Lima never did like him. Of course, he never liked much of anything besides his wine and women. I wager Desaix looked upon the general as an obstacle of sorts, too, because after he murdered the king’s children, he pinned it on Sir Mycen. You’d have been daft to believe such a thing, of course... which is precisely what the king did. Or perhaps he just saw it as an excuse. Regardless, Mycen was found guilty and banished. He’s lucky he wasn’t hanged.

@Dialogue 
Clive: Friends, may I have your attention? It’s true we have made great strides by recapturing the castle... but Chancellor Desaix—the man who started all this—remains at large, and the Rigelian Army yet lingers inside our kingdom’s borders. To free Zofia, we must find Desaix, slay him, and drive Rigel back for good. Alm...
Alm: Yes?
Clive: You are our commander now. We would hear your opinion on this.
Alm: Oh, right. My opinion. Um... Well, what are our options?
Lukas: We could be defensive—garrison the castle and wait for Rigel to come to us. Or...we could take the fight to them. The choice is yours.
Alm: I see. ...... You know, until recently, I’d never set foot outside of Ram Village. This war has been my first glimpse of the kingdom I live in. Unfortunately, I’ve also seen what it’s been reduced to. Needless to say, it’s far worse than I’d heard. People are suffering. Even dying. But this war, no matter how terrible, has also taught me something. It taught me that when we stand up and fight...we help those people. I don’t want to stop helping them now. I want to press on and make as much of a difference as I can. I know this probably sounds empty. Maybe even mad. But I think we should keep fighting until we’ve taken back all of Zofia. So then...will you stand with me? Will you stand and fight?
Lukas: Heh...
Clair: What kind of question is that? Of course we will, silly boy!
Clive: Then it seems the matter is settled. The Deliverance shall march! We will put Desaix down and scatter the Rigelian Army to the four winds!
Tobin: Wow... That gave me goosebumps. Not bad, Alm. Not bad.
Gray: Were you even listening to a thing he said? Your goosebump-giver just declared war on the whole damned empire!
Tobin: I know, but I think it was a nice spee— WAIT, HE DID WHAT?! No, no. Come on, this isn’t WAR, Gray. He’s just going to kick them out.
Gray: Riiiight. And then Emperor Rudolf will just send a fruit basket to apologize! C’mon, Tobin. You can’t be so thick that you don’t see what’s coming.
Tobin: Hmm...
Gray: What? Stop staring at me. It’s creepy.
Tobin: You knew it would come to this, didn’t you? When you agreed to join the Deliverance, I mean.
Gray: Oh, come now.
Tobin: You’re the one who said all those years ago that Alm was different from us. You knew he was going to do something like this one day.
Gray: Ha! I’m not a prophet, Tobin. All I meant was that he’s different.
Tobin: Well, you were on to something no matter what you meant. Because now we’re starting to see that he’s much bigger than we are. I’m proud of him, but...I’m also going to miss him.
Gray: Oh, brother. You poor kid, Tobin.

Old Timer: Well, if it isn’t the good men and women of the Deliverance! I was hoping I’d run into you. Please, allow me to welcome you to the castle. I served Zofia’s king for many years, you know. If you need anything, just ask!
Alm: Thank you. That’s very kind. This is my first time here, so I’ll admit to feeling a bit lost. My grandfather, Sir Mycen, spoke of it on occasion, but—
Old Timer: Sir Mycen the Zofian general?
Alm: Er, yes, that’s the one. I’m his grandson, Alm. He lived in this castle long ago, didn’t he?
Old Timer: Well, yes, but...how very odd. I knew the general quite well, and he had neither wife nor child.
Alm: Huh? 
Clive: I beg your pardon, good sir, but that simply cannot be the case. Alm is most certainly related to—
Old Timer: No, I assure you, General Mycen told me himself. “I have no family,” he said. Clear as day it was.
Alm: But wait... If I’m not...
Clive: Pay him no mind, Alm. The old man’s probably just confused, is all. It was a long time ago.
Alm: Y-yes... That must be it...
Clive: ......

Cavalier: Commander Alm! You’re just in time. Please proceed up these steps. A visitor is waiting for you up on the balcony.
Alm: A visitor? Who is it?
Cavalier: I’m afraid I cannot say. Go on and see for yourself.
Alm: All right, then...
Cavalier: Please proceed up these steps. A visitor is waiting for you up on the balcony.

Mycen: It’s good to see you, boy.
Alm: Grandfather?! What are you doing here?
Mycen: Heh. I have my reasons. Look how far you’ve come, Alm. You’re a man grown now. You’ve been through quite a bit since leaving the village, haven’t you?
Alm: I suppose. But Grandfather... I’m sorry I never said good-bye or thanked you for all you did for me. I still feel guilty about that. But I think I made the right choice. I’m the commander of the Deliverance now. And together, we’ve already liberated the Southern Outpost AND this castle. So you see—
Mycen: I didn’t come here to pick apart your actions, Alm. I came here to ask you a single question: Are you ready?
Alm: Am I...ready?
Mycen: Indeed. For once you march on Rigel, you place yourself in the hands of destiny. You won’t be able to stop the events that unfold. No one will wish you well. Many will even try to stop you; unexpected tragedy is sure to follow. That is the price of what you are about to undertake.
Alm: ......
Mycen: So I ask again: Are you ready to take the lives of others into your hands? Are you ready to shoulder all of their burdens? Their desires? And are you ready to fight and bleed until Zofia and all of Valentia is saved?
Alm: I am. I know I may be in over my head, and I still have much to learn. But when I say I will fight for my kingdom, I will fight for my kingdom. No one will stop me. Nothing will break me. I’ll see it through to the very end.
Mycen: ...Very well. I’ve seen that look before. Must run in the blood...
Alm: Huh? What do you mean?
Mycen: You’ll understand in time, boy.
Alm: Say, that reminds me... This old man downstairs was saying some strange things. He told me—
Alm: Huh? What’s that noise?
Mycen: Well, well... The people have gathered to get a look at their new hero. You should go greet them.
Alm: Whoa...
Mycen: Burn this memory into your heart, boy. These are the people whose burdens you will carry the rest of the way. Remember what lies upon your shoulders.

@Narration 
And so it was that Zofia Castle was liberated from Desaix’s clutches, causing the Zofian people to greet their new hero with raucous cheers. However, what Alm did not and could not know, was that his victory here was but the prelude to a longer—and far more bitter—conflict.

@Dialogue 
Soldier: I bear ill tidings, Emperor. The rebel army has taken back Zofia Castle!
Rudolf: ...... And what of Berkut?
Soldier: Sire, Lord Berkut withdrew and rejoined with the main force.
Jedah: Pathetic... Pathetic! A Rigelian Knight, the emperor’s sworn defender, scurrying away like a rat? My arcanists would never have painted so sorry a picture...
Massena: Hold your tongue, Master Jedah.
Jedah: Why should I? I merely speak the truth.
Rudolf: You said the leader of this “Deliverance” is named Alm, correct?
Soldier: Yes, Emperor. He assumed command after Sir Clive of the Knights of Zofia stepped down.
Rudolf: Did he now...
/***EOF***/
@Cutscene
Alm: Rudolf! DIEEE!
Celica: Alm!
Alm: You took...everything!  Everything that I ever loved! You took Zofia! You took my friends! And now...Celica too!
Celica: Please, stop! What’s going on? Can’t you see me?! Stop this! I’m begging you, please!
Celica: NOOOOOOOOO!
Celica: Alm...

@Dialogue 
Boey: Hey, why are they clanging that infernal bell?
Mae: Apparently, the king’s passed away... That’s what Nomah said, at least.
Boey: The king? But isn't that... He was Celica's...
Genny: Oh dear. I hope she's dealing with this okay...

Nomah: You're certain I can't dissuade you from going, little one?
Celica: I must, Nomah. It’s been years since crops last grew on Zofian soil. Our barren fields have fallen victim to Terrors, the Rigelians have invaded... I fear some ill must have befallen the Earth Mother, Mila. I can’t help but feel this is all related. I know it.
Nomah: Hmm... Perhaps it is, at that. I’ll not deny that the kingdom of Zofia faces her darkest hour in some time. More sick and hungry come to the priory’s door each day seeking aid...
Celica: The key to everything lies with Mila. I shall travel to her temple and learn what’s become of her.
Nomah: Yes, but little one... You know well the reason Mycen placed you in my care. With the king's passing, you are the last living member of the Zofian royal line. There are many who would seek to use you. Or even end you. That threat is greater now than ever. Yet you would still leave, knowing that?
Celica: I must. Even if my decision betrays the care you and Mycen have shown me. You’ve done so much to keep me safe, and it breaks my heart to pain you. But what calls me to do this goes beyond my heart. I can only ask your forgiveness, Nomah.
Nomah: Keep your cries of forgiveness, little one. I’ll not give what isn’t required. If this is your mind, I won’t object. Follow the path before you. Trust in it as I in you.
Celica: Thank you, Nomah.
Nomah: Heh. Of course. But you must take care—the blight in Zofia is worse even than you know. You’ve uncommon talent as a warrior priestess, but carelessness is fatal. Ah, and you mustn’t forget Mila's Turnwheel.
Celica: I wear it always. You know that.
Nomah: See that you do. I’m certain it will prove helpful on your journey.
Celica: Thank you, Nomah. For everything. Well then, I think I’ll be on my way.
Nomah: Mm? You’re leaving this very instant? Surely you can stay until the bell’s last peal? It rings to mourn your father’s passing, as you know.
Celica: I’ll never think of that man as my father. Now if you’ll excuse me....
Nomah: Little one...

@Conversation 
Cleric: Lately, Novis sees boat after boat filled stern to bow with hungry refugees. But alas for them, this island’s no better off than anywhere else. We’re even poorer than most, what with pirates seizing inbound supply ships... We’ll soon have naught to eat but what fish the waves see fit to provide. These are dark times we face...

Sage: When Rigel broke the Divine Accord, this plague of Terrors fell upon us. But surely their own lands must be suffering the same fate. What could have driven them to invade Zofia at such a price? I would dearly love to know what’s going through Emperor Rudolf’s mind...

Nomah: May you walk always in the light of Mila’s blessing, little one.

@Dialogue 
Mae: Celica! I heard the news! You’re going to the Temple of Mila, right? If so, then I'm going too. You can't say no!
Celica: Heh. Thanks, Mae. To be honest, I’d welcome the help.
Boey: Good, because I’m coming too. I’m not letting the two of you off on your own.
Mae: "Letting" us? Heh, you say that like you think you can keep us safe.
Boey: I do! And I can! I’ll be more help than you, at least.
Mae: Uh, rude? AND wrong! I can conjure lightning, Boey. Big, hurty lightning. What’ve you got, fire? Maybe I’ll call you if I want to roast marshmallows.
Celica: Let’s just say you’d both be a great help and leave it at that, shall we? I know I’ll be counting on you both. This isn’t going to be an easy journey. Still, I'm glad I'll have such good company.

@Recruit-Conversation 
Genny: Celica? Can I...go with you?

Genny: What? No? Awww... I was really hoping I could help you out...

Genny: Did you need something? Wait, can I go with you now?!

@Conversation 
Cleric: Er, pardon me. ...Excuse me? Might I trouble you to show me Mila's Turnwheel for a moment?

Cleric: Ah! Of course! It is just as I thought. Ancient as it is, it's little wonder some of the cogs are missing. While it appears to still function, it has lost some of its true capability. I suspect the counterpart to your Turnwheel is in the same condition. I can't imagine its bearer is more gentle with it than you, Celica. If you were able to find the missing cogs, I could attempt a repair. A restored Turnwheel would be able to turn back even more time. You’re curious where the cogs might be, yes? Yes, of course. Sadly, I couldn’t say. That’s the trouble with ancient artifacts! They’re always scattering their bits at various locations around the world.

Cleric: Ah, of course. Forgive me for presuming.

Cleric: Mila's Turnwheel is incomplete in its current state, its power diminished. If you could recover all of the missing cogs, it could be restored. Surely the ability to turn back more time in battle would be most welcome!

Cleric: My word! My stars and garters! It seems all the cogs have been restored to Mila's Turnwheel! You should now be able to use it to its fullest, most potential-y potential. What's more, I can rest easy knowing that the artifact is now whole. Thank you for repairing this treasure. Allow me to give you this in recognition of your fine efforts.

Cleric: Thank you for restoring Mila’s Turnwheel to its former glory.
Languid Hermit: Such poor, damnable souls... ...Me? Why, I speak of the revenants that haunt Novis Cemetery, of course. They were once good people of the island, all buried with love and care. But now the world’s rotting, and they’ve risen as Terrors to prey on the living. If you've a beating heart inside you, give them the rest they deserve. Last I looked, at least twenty of the poor souls stalked the area.

Languid Hermit: Please grant peace to the revenants. They’ve suffered enough. If you could free just twenty from their curse, it would be a mercy.

Languid Hermit: Ah, I can see you’ve laid twenty revenants to rest. It is a kindness. You have my thanks. And you’ve set my own mind to peace as well. I’ve not much, but you deserve a reward for your service.

@Dialogue 
Celica: Ships leaving the port will get us to the mainland. We should head there now. Though that DOES mean we’ll have to pass through the cemetery on our way. Rumor has it there have been Terrors appearing there as of late. Let’s be ready for anything.

@Intro 
Boey: Milady, this graveyard we’re passing through... Er, why are we, again?
Celica: Because it’s the only way to port.
Boey: Yes, but there’s been talk of Terrors around here as of late...
Celica: So there has. Best keep our wits about us then, hmm?
Boey: But milady, I... I’ll face down thieves or rogues any day, but Terrors? Terrors are...different.
Mae: Oh, Boey. How can you be so scared of spooks and spirits at your age?
Boey: Shove off, would you? A man can’t help what gives him fright!
Celica: Ha, ha.
Boey: Oh, not you too, milady? You wound me...
Celica: I'm sorry, Boey. I was just remembering my brother.
Boey: Brother? I didn’t realize you had one.
Celica: Yes, though by different mothers. He was a sweet thing, but meek. Frightened to death of ghosts. Then he became one, alas. And much too young... Were he alive, you two would have been quite alike, I’m sure.
Boey: Milady, I...
Mae: Way to go, Boey. Your whining’s gone and dredged up a bunch of sad memories for Celica.
Boey: What? Why is this MY fault?!
Mae: Uhh, because it's ALWAYS your fault! Now suck it up and get ready to fry some foes—Terrors or otherwise!

@Battle 
Celica: Terrain bears no influence on magic. I remember Sir Mycen saying so. Listen close, friends: do not be shy about when and where you attack! Even if our foes cower in the woods, our spells will find their mark!

@Conversation 
Celica: Um, excuse me, but—
Old Timer: Ah, lady priestess! Welcome. Something I can help you with today?
Celica: I need to book passage to Zofia Harbor.
Old Timer: Hrm... I’m afraid that’s a difficult wish to grant, even for you, priestess. This patch of sea is teeming with pirates of late. It’s just too dangerous.
Celica: Oh, that’s no good...
Old Timer: That being said...if milady were to do something about those pirates... well, that’d be a different matter altogether now, wouldn’t it?
Celica: You want me to...fight pirates?
Old Timer: They’ve grown bolder by the day, so they have. And yet, His Highness hasn’t seen fit to send so much as a single man... This sea’s our love and livelihood. We can’t live cut off from her. Ah, what’s happened to Zofia?
Celica: Hmm...
Old Timer: Forgive me, milady, but I can’t get you across the sea so long as pirates sail it. I know I ask much of you, priestess, but if you would lend us your strength...
Boey: Hmm... What are we supposed to do now?
Mae: I can’t believe that old timer tossed his pirate problem right at our feet! Do we LOOK like the type to fight pirates? We’re delicate little blossoms!
Boey: Speak for yourself!
Celica: Regardless, the man is right. We’ll not get anywhere until ships are free to sail again.
Boey: What do you propose, milady?
Celica: Let’s gather what help we can find. The sea is only the start. Zofia is at war, and ravaged by Terrors besides. We’ll not make it very far traveling alone. We need allies. Strong ones.
Boey: Yes, and mad enough to set sail into pirate-infested waters with us... I’m sure they’ll just be lining up to take the job.

Old Timer: No ships can sail so long as pirates stalk these waters. If you feel the danger’s too great alone, perhaps you might court additional aid?

Saber: You lost, little lass? This ain’t a place for children.

@Recruit-Conversation 
Celica: You’re Saber, yes?
Saber: Yep. Who’re you, girl?
Celica: My name is Celica. The people here speak quite highly of your skill with a blade. I’d like to enlist your services as a protector...
Saber: Guard duty, eh? You headed somewhere, or is this a local deal?
Celica: We seek the Temple of Mila.
Saber: That’s awfully far... And I suppose you’ve already heard about our little pirate problem?
Celica: It’s the reason I seek your aid, in fact. Unless you think a few mere pirates are too much for you to handle?
Saber: Oh, that’s real cute. Believe me, lass, I ain’t worried about a couple sea rats. All I’m worried about is if you can pay. I don’t work charity cases. Especially when I’m risking my own neck.
Celica: I’m afraid I haven’t much money, but I do have this.
Saber: A dagger. *whistle* Well, ain’t you fancy?
Celica: Will this be sufficient for your services?
Saber: You mean will I risk life and limb for a single dagger? Ordinarily, no. BUT...since I like your moxie, I’m gonna go ahead and give you a break. You got a deal. I’ll get you to your temple.
Celica: Wonderful! You have my thanks, Saber. Mae! Boey! Did you hear that? He’s going to come with us!
Saber: Heh. This job’s got easy money written all over it. What kind of fool hands over treasure like this without batting an eye? She really must be daddy’s spoiled little lass...

@Dialogue 
Old Timer: Ah, lady priestess. You’ve returned.
Celica: I have! And this gentleman, Saber, has agreed to aid us. Now may we ask you to set sail?
Old Timer: Well, then, I’d be honored to do my part, milady. Come aboard. We’ll depart as soon as you’re ready.

@Conversation 
Man: Good day, milady. Are you thinking of leaving for Zofia, perchance? If so, I fear you may be in for some disappointment. Ships aren’t sailing, or so I’m told. Too many pirates about. Still, probably best you went to the docks and asked the captain yourself.

Woman: He may smell like a tavern floor, but that Saber’s a skilled sellsword. If you ever find yourself in need of steel, you could do far worse than him. Though if that steel needs a history fit for retelling in polite company, well... He’s strong, though, I’ll give him that. And I suppose...passably handsome.

Young Woman: There’s a shrine on a small island up ahead, you know. Its vault holds an otherworldly sword, or so the stories go. Many have died for such stories, though, so consider this fair warning. See, turns out that islet is home to a terrible necrodragon. Eat you in a single bite, it will! What if the fear don’t kill you first. Augh, just the thought of it is enough to turn my hair to white!

Young Man: Heading out to sea, milady? Be careful out there amongst the waves. A vile man named Barth has named himself pirate king of these waters. He sits in his island hold to the east and commits what barbary he pleases. Just the other day, a man who’d had his whole family slain set out for revenge. Like as not, he’ll meet the same fate. At least he’ll be reunited with his kin...

Man: Chancellor Desaix has taken up the throne at Zofia Castle. The villain thinks slaying a king makes you next in line... He’s a right tyrant! Sir Clive of the Order of Zofian Knights has gathered an army to run him off, but from what we hear in these parts, fighting’s been hard and progress slow.

Tavernkeep: For a while there, I was obsessed with making my own tinctures. I’d take any herbs and botanicals I could find and mash ’em up. Of all my creations, the best was something I called “medicinal syrup.” If you had three mana herbs on you, I could whip up a batch right now.

Tavernkeep: Ah, I see you’re well stocked. I’ll have your syrup ready to go in no time flat.

Tavernkeep: Well, I’ll be here if the craving strikes. You just let me know.

Tavernkeep: Hey, c’mon! You don’t even HAVE three mana herbs! Track down three of those bad boys and then come talk to me.

Tavernkeep: If you had three mana herbs, I could whip you up some medicinal syrup.

@Dialogue 
Celica: ......
Mae: What’s wrong, Celica? Feelin’ blue?
Celica: Oh, it’s nothing. It’s just that the last time I was on a ship was when I came to the island.
Mae: Hey, that’s right! Boey and I used to take little trips every now and again, but never with you. Shame we never got to travel as a group. Woulda been way more fun?
Boey: Are you completely daft, Mae? Celica came here in hiding, remember? She can’t just announce herself by hopping aboard a pleasure cruise.
Mae: Uh, I know that much, Boey! Of course I do! I’m just saying I’m happy we’re getting the chance NOW. Isn’t that right, Celica?
Boey: Please stop talking before you dig a grave so deep we all go tumbling in...
Celica: Ha ha. It’s fine, Boey. Really. And I’m happy to be travelling with you as well, Mae. Though I’m also anxious... What could have happened to Mila? Will we even make it to the temple to find out? And...
Mae: Aaaaand?
Celica: I’m sorry. Best I keep this one to myself.
Mae: Whaaat?! Oh, that’s just mean!
Celica: Alm... Where are you right now? And what are you doing? Are you still living in that village with grandpapa? ...No. I can tell. You’ve left your home behind, haven’t you? I want to see you so badly. There’s so much I need to ask. Perhaps Mila will cause our paths to cross on this journey...

Jedah: Are you in pain, my lord Duma? The sight tears at my heart... But you needn’t endure it much longer. I’ve had report that the girl has left the island. I will deliver her to you without fail. She of the fated children... Bearer of the Brand...

@Intro 
Pirate: Yar! Not a step further, ye scurvy dogs!
Old Timer: Eagh! P-p-pirates!
Pirate: These waters belong to Barth the Pirate King, as yer surely aware! That means ye needs pay a toll... All yer goods and women’ll do nicely!
Celica: An interesting offer...but I fear we must nevertheless decline. The sea belongs to no one man—she’s a gift to every citizen of Zofia.
Pirate: Yar, who be the mouthy wench?!
Saber: Enough with the chit-chat. Reason and logic are wasted on sea dogs like him. Let’s just get to business already. That’s what you hired me for, ain’t it?
Celica: Fair enough. Let’s go, everyone!

@End 
Old Timer: Look there. Do you see that small island to the east? That’s where Barth’s keep stands. He’s the pirate king of these waters. Unfortunately this current means we’ll have to sail right past it. It’ll be trouble if we’re seen, so let’s unfurl the sails and be quick about it.
Celica: Hold a moment. If we were to deal with this "Barth", would this stretch of ocean be safer?
Old Timer: Well, yes, undoubtedly—but no sane person picks a fight with a pirate king!
Saber: Whoa there, lass. I signed up for a nice, easy escort job, not to storm some pirate hold.
Celica: Mmm... I see. ...Very well then. I shall lead the charge myself. You need only worry about keeping me safe.
Saber: Now just a—
Celica: The people of that island are suffering under the tyranny of those pirates. I can’t stand by knowing starving innocents are being routinely plundered.
Saber: Oh, for the love of... Look, I ain’t sure why I have to remind you of this, but you’re on a mission. And you can’t finish it if you keep pokin’ your nose where it don’t belong.
Celica: I have no intention of wasting time on idle philanthropy, Saber. But there are no guarantees I’ll ever return from this journey. I would at least like to ensure peace to those who have been so kind to me. Is that so unreasonable?
Saber: Hrm... Fine. It’s your neck—go ahead and risk it on whatever fool thing ya like.
Celica: Thank you, Saber.

@Intro 
Barth: By the mighty parrot of Shanty Pete! What be that racket? Yar har ho! Looks like more little mice be squeakin’ into me keep!
Celica: Are you the one they call Barth? I order you to halt your piracy and leave these waters at once!
Barth: Gar har har! I’ll do no such thing, ye shrill woman! No one enters the lair of the Pirate King and starts squawkin’ orders but me!
Saber: You see, lass? What’d I tell you about trying to reason with sea dogs?
Barth: Yar, bold words from a fool man. Well, I’ll put yer steel to the test! Have at ’em, boys! Take the man’s guts for garters, but leave the wench alive. I’ll not have a single scratch on her... Ruins the sale price, it do! Yar har ho!
Saber: See what I mean?
Celica: Redemption is a lost cause for a man like you, Barth. Your reign as pirate king ends here!

Valbar: Hmm...? What’s with the sudden shift in position?
Leon: Well, I’ll be. Looks like another band has joined the fray.
Valbar: Heh. Must be our lucky day. Splitting their forces in two should make Barth that much easier to defeat.
Kamui: You know why I like you, Valbar? Because you’re such an optimist. From where I’m standing, our odds look somewhere between grim and dire.
Leon: What, you mean because we’re horribly outnumbered?
Valbar: You two better stop gabbing like hens and start fighting like you want to live. Now, if we can take Barth out of the picture, his goons should scatter... So you know what to do, right, boys? Ignore the runts and take aim for Barth!

Celica: I heard talk in port about a man seeking revenge on Barth for killing his family... Perhaps this is his crew? Let’s advance with caution and try to aid their cause.

@Boss 
Barth: Yar, I’ve keelhauled bigger mice’n you in me spit!

Barth: Yar? Yaaaaaar... I was supposed to be... the king o’ the seas...

@End 
Celica: Whew... It looks like those men are all okay.

@Recruit-Conversation 
Valbar: Oh ho! Look who the cat dragged in! I’m Valbar, by the way. You really saved my bacon back there. And since that dastard Barth is dead, my family can finally rest... *sniffle* ...Er, right. Sorry. Got a little emotional there for a second. So hey, is there anything I can do to thank you? I’ll be honest—I’m not good at much besides crackin’ skulls. But if you NEED skulls cracked, I’m your man! What do you say?

Valbar: Well, that’s no fun. But hey, come see me if you change your mind.

Valbar: Hey, you’re back! Decide you have room for me after all? Find a skull or three that needs bustin’?

Leon: I’m sorry, what did you need? ...Ah yes. Apologies, but I’m not going anywhere without my dear Valbar. Go talk to him if you’re looking for recruits.

Leon: You’re going off with them, old friend? Well, they’d better make room, because I go where you go! No complaints about that, right? Everybody on the same page? ...Great.

Leon: Ugh! Now you’re just being petty. Your beauty is going to make you a tyrant someday if you aren’t careful. Honestly, I don’t even have the words.

Leon: Oh. It’s you again. Decided you need me after all?

Kamui: Sorry, but I’ve got a contract with Valbar. If you want to negotiate with me, you need to go through him first.

Kamui: You joining up with this lot, Valbar? Interesting... Well, it’s your call—I don’t have a preference either way. Oh, but let me ask you one question: Do you have Seraphim magic? If not, then you’d best stay clear of the Seabound Shrine. Necrodragons are the one thing I absolutely refuse to tangle with.

Kamui: Yeah? All right. I guess we part ways here, then. Good luck.

Kamui: Hmm? What is it? Now you want me to come with you?

Leon: *sob* Valbar... How could you go and leave me all alone like this? How do I go on without you? This is on your heads! All of you! And I’m coming with you to make sure he didn’t die in vain.

Leon: Selfish dastards! Try thinking of someone else for once! Enough. Just go. ...GO already!

Kamui: I can’t believe that damn fool Valbar is dead. What happens now? Not to be crass, but we had a contract, and now there’s no way to collect.. ...Say, any chance you lot want to hire me on?

Kamui: Yeah, I figured it was a stretch. I guess this is goodbye, then. Best of luck.

@Dialogue 
Valbar: Wait, you two are comin’?
Leon: Well, obviously. I go where you go—that’s the deal. And I don’t care who doesn’t like it.
Kamui: And I just go wherever the money flows like wine!
Valbar: You jokers are a couple of real class acts. You ever stop to think that maybe you’re being rude to the priestess?! She’s on a holy mission to... Er, a mission of... It’s important, okay?!
Celica: It’s all right, Valbar—they’re welcome to come along if they like. It’s an honor and a pleasure to have such capable company. They’ve both proven their skill, and can be rather amusing to boot. So I thank you one and all for brightening our journey.
Valbar: Aw shucks, milady... We should be the ones thanking YOU!
Leon: My my, that was some praise... I thought I’d give at least 50 percent... but now you get all of it!
Kamui: You know me. I’ll give you as much as you pay me for.
Valbar: Did you jokers hear ANYTHING I just said?
Celica: Hee hee!

@Conversation 
Young Man: We’re sailors from Rigel, we is. We owes you our freedom! Zofian pirate scum ride the sea like they owns it, but what’s our emperor do? Not a damn thing! Guess his precious war’s all he cares about. Just what kinda man’s he become, anyway?

Old Timer: As a boy, Rigel’s Emperor Rudolf was as fine a crown prince as you could desire. But since ascending to the throne... Well, something has certainly changed. Still, I continue to place my faith in him, as must we all.

Man: You’re going to the Seabound Shrine, eh, priestess? Oh, I’ve heard tale of a wondrous treasure that sleeps there... but while I like a bit of coin as much as the next, I’d urge you to reconsider. For a necrodragon filled with deadly purpose is said to haunt that place! Steel won’t even tickle its hide. They say it scoffs at all but Seraphim magic.

@Intro 
Celica: There’s only...one of them? What’s going on here?
Cantor: *laugh* So you’re the girl, eh? Serving you up on a platter will earn me a swift promotion within the faith. Now that I’ve washed this place clean of pirate vermin, you will come with me.
Boey: Are you out of your mind, old man? We’re in a hurry here, and you’re in our way. So would you kindly get out of it?
Cantor: Impudent child... Such a glib tongue will earn you nothing but pain.
Boey: Heh. Do you honestly plan to take us on all by yourself?
Celica: Wait a second—is he? Oh no... Watch out, everyone! He’s a cantor! He means to summon Terrors to fight for him!
Boey: He means to summon... Wait, WHAT?!

@End 
Boey: *sigh* It’s over... Thank the Mother. Milady, what was that all about? That creep was talking about...serving you up or some such...?
Celica: I don’t know, Boey. But he was different from the others who have come after me. And I fear he won’t be the last...so we’d best be extra careful moving forward.

@Intro 
Boey: Really? Here? We have to come HERE, milady? Have you not heard of the unspeakable beast that haunts this place?
Celica: We may find something of use here, Boey. Besides, the whole of Novis was terrified. We can’t very well do nothing.
Saber: Oh, I’m pretty sure we can. I’ve told you before, lass—you need to stop dumping extra work on my— ...Hmm?
Boey: NuuuoooooaaAAAAAAAAAGH! It’s HERE!

Kamui: Whoa, whoa, whoa—hey, Priestess! Did you forget our little chat about staying clear of the Seabound Shrine? Because this is not staying clear! This is the exact OPPOSITE of staying clear!
Celica: I’m sorry, did we discuss that? I must’ve been preoccupied... What if there’s something of use here? Surely you would want to— Ooooh, I remember now. You’re scared of necrodragons, aren’t you, Kamui? How careless of me. It completely slipped my mind!
Kamui: Slipped your mind... That’s it. I’m waiting on the boat.
Celica: Er, actually...
Kamui: GyaaaeeeeeeeEEEEEEEK! It’s HERE!

@Battle 
Celica: Goodness. What a horrifying creature. But I have the Seraphim spell in my quiver now. May its light guide your lost soul on to slumber eternal!

@Dialogue 
Celica: The damp, chilly air of the cave bears the scent of the ocean. There’s no sign of anyone coming through here; scared off by the Necrodragon, I imagine.

@Conversation 
Feeble Man: I-is that... Yes! You there! Please! F-food... Anything... I beg of ya!

Skilled Angler: ...Ahhhh! Many thanks. Now I’m finally startin’ to feel human again. I’m a fisherman. All of Zofia Harbor knows of me, so they do. But ten days ago, I ran into a fearsome storm that washed me ashore here. “Thank Mila, I’m saved!” I thought. ...Then the necrodragon showed up. I ran in here and hid, but m’food stores ran out and... Well, you see. ...Eh? The necrodragon is dead? And by yer hand?! Well, that’s marvelous news! I can go home now! Here, lemme see if... This is all I have, but please take it.

Feeble Man: ...What? Really? I’ve real questions... about yer...moral compass...friend...

Feeble Man: Sorry, but I was thinkin’ something... a bit more... Ya know... Meaty. A bit meatier. More...meat-like. ...Look, ya gots any meat?

Skilled Angler: Oh, didja know about this place? They say this shrine’s also the tomb of a priestess what protected this region. Tales say she was given a grand burial along with her trusty blade. Can’t say I saw anything like that here, though, and I walked around a fair bit. Did feel a breeze coming through by the well in the back, though. If you were thinkin’ to explore, I’d tell ya to start there. Well, I’m off to patch m’boat and sail her back to Zofia. Safe travels, one’n all!

Python: Huh? What, you lot selling something? Maybe pottage spoons or holy relics? Well, sorry to say, but we ain’t buying. Nobody’s home, see? Well, nobody ‘cept for one hardworking guard. ...Handsome too, might I add.

Python: ...What is it? If you’ve no business here, shove off. A fellow can’t nap when he’s crowded.

Forsyth: Greetings, travellers. We don’t tend to get many visitors out this way. Know that you stand in the sacred halls of the Deliverance! Er, however, it seems everyone has taken leave of the sacred halls for the moment. As such, it falls upon I to hold down the fort! ...Er, or the halls. As it were.

Forsyth: If it’s our leader you seek, you should make your way to Zofia Castle.

Celica: Wait a second... Silque? Is that you?
Silque: Ah! Sister Celica! Fate is indeed strange, that it would have us meet in this place.
Celica: We haven’t heard from you since you left the priory on Novis. We were all worried sick.
Silque: That was never my intent. Forgive me. But I aim to play my part here, no matter the cost. And I see I’m not the only sister to have flown the nest. Set a course by your own star, Celica, and never stray from it. May you walk always in the light of Mila’s blessing.

Silque: May you walk always in the light of Mila’s blessing.

Celica: Ram Village... How I’ve missed this place. I wonder how everyone’s doing?

Celica: Mycen? Grandpapa, it’s me! ...Hmm, not here. I wonder where he’s gone.
Woman: Celica? Is that you, dear? Well, isn’t this a delight?! What a lovely woman you’ve become. Last I recall, you were just a sprout!
Old Timer: Ho, Celica! How long has it been? The village may look the same, but it’s a different place these days. The young ones have all up and left, what with the war. I just pray they all return to us...

@Recruit-Conversation 
Kliff: Celica? Celica, is that you? How long has it been?! I can’t believe you came back to the village! Alm and the others are gone, I’m afraid. It’s...a long story. Oh, and Sir Mycen vanished around the same time. *sigh* Ram Village was never all that exciting, but now it’s unbearably dull. So where are you off to, mmm? Somewhere grand, no doubt. Say, why don’t you let me come along? I bet we could both use the company.

Kliff: Fine, whatever. I wasn’t that interested anyway. I’ll just stay here and...uh...till the land.

Kliff: Huh? Now you want me to come with you after all? Make up your mind!

Faye: ...Huh? Oh, Celica! You’re back! Gosh, how long has it been? I’ve missed you so much! Alm left Ram. Did you know that? Just up and LEFT! I’m so desperately lonely... Anyway, I thought about going after him just to teach him a lesson, but I didn’t. I’d probably get killed by some foul beast out there on my own, you know? Hey, wait... Are you on a journey or a quest or whatever? Then maybe I could go with you!

Faye: R- really? Oh. I suppose it was foolish of me to ask something like that. But listen, if you see Alm, tell him... Well, just tell him he has a home here and always will.

Faye: Did you change your mind? Can I come with you?

@Conversation 
Soldier: Three huzzahs for Zofia’s liberators, and three huzzahs for Alm! Truly, he is the hero Zofia has been waiting for. And he’s every bit the champion General Mycen was! Make no mistake, the Rigelian Empire’s as fearsome a foe as they come, but with Alm leading our forces, we needn’t fear any man!

Mercenary: Everyone’s laughing and cheering, but my gut’s one big knot. Only a fool’d think the Rigelian Empire would back down without a fight. Emperor Rudolf’s order of knights are scary enough... but what about that Duma priest Jedah and his horde of arcanists? How are normal folk s’posed to fight against men who conjure Terrors?

Woman: Are you headed for the Temple of Mila, lady priestess? Oh, I do wish you’d reconsider. That whole area’s crawling with thieves working in the employ of Grieth. The very ground itself is rotten! Hunks of cliffside slough off near every day. You might easily find yourself with no way back...so be careful, okay?

Young Woman: Sure, Desaix and those Rigelian thugs turned tail and ran, but our crops still aren’t growing and we’ve no shortage of Terrors ... What do you suppose could’ve happened to Mila? Some men have gone to the temple to investigate, but none have returned. I say we’ve bigger problems than fighting a war, but no one asks me...

@Dialogue 
Celica: ...Grandpapa?! What are you doing here?
Mycen: It’s been so very long, Celica.
Celica: Oh, Grandpapa! I’d half resigned myself to never seeing you again.
Mycen: As had I. And yet here you are, grown into a beautiful young woman. Though I fear we lack the time for a leisurely reunion. Surely you left the island with some purpose in mind, yes?
Celica: I did. I’m going to the Temple of Mila. All that’s transpiring in Zofia now is tied to the Earth Mother— I can feel it in my very marrow. There’s more to be done than simply fighting the foes laid before us. I must learn Mila’s will in all of this. I also intend to pray that she intercedes on behalf of her people. That she might save us all.
Mycen: I see. Just as Alm has chosen his path, it would seem you have chosen yours.
Celica: Alm?! I’d suspected as much, but your being here confirms it... He’s leading the Deliverance, isn’t he?
Mycen: Why don’t you go upstairs and see for yourself? I expect that’s where you’ll find what you’ve been searching for.

@Cutscene
Celica: It’s really you!
Alm: Wha—?!
Alm: Wait a sec... Celica? Is that really you, Celica?!
Celica: Alm... I’m so glad to see you... I have dreamt about this day for seven years— At last... I’ve finally found you!
Alm: You have. I've missed you too... so much.

@Dialogue 
Alm: ...Wow, that’s quite the story. I’m trying to picture you swashbuckling pirates, and... Yeah, just...wow.
Celica: I didn’t mean to swashbuckle anyone. It just sort of...happened. But forget all that for the moment. Alm, you aren’t REALLY planning to fight the Rigelian Empire, are you?
Alm: Listen, it’s not... it’s not something I chose. They were the ones who attacked us.
Celica: But there must be a way to resolve things other than bloodshed, no?
Alm: That’s a pretty thought, Celica, but... I’m not sure it’s true. If it were, no one would be risking life and limb on the battlefield.
Celica: Is it really so naive? Zofians and Rigelians are both people of Valentia, are we not? I know we can reach some kind of accord if we just try. Besides that, I... I just can’t imagine Emperor Rudolf is the monster some claim him to be.
Alm: It doesn’t matter what sort of man he is. The Rigelian Empire chose to cross Zofia’s border—that’s a fact. We aim to drive back the invaders. Nothing more.
Celica: But why do YOU have to lead this rebellion? Mycen’s grandson or no, you’re neither knight nor noble. So why make yourself a target like this?
Alm: Nrgh... If I didn’t know any better, I’d swear I was speaking to a blue blood. My station doesn’t matter, Celica. I’m here because I was called. I have a duty to perform, and I’ll perform it. No more, and no less.
Celica: Oh, Alm...
Alm: Do you think I WANTED this fight? This all started because Lima IV went and angered the empire. If you wish to point fingers, point them at the ruler who failed his people. It’s his fault we’re in this mess.
Celica: That’s not... Well, so what if it is? Maybe you should go become king if it’s such a damnably easy job!
Alm: What? Celica, that’s not—
Celica: You’re awfully free with accusations for a boy with no idea what royalty entails! And now that you’re a “hero,” I imagine the throne is next on the list, is that it?!
Alm: No, it’s not like that at all, Celica! I just want to keep Zofia SAFE! Besides, there’s an heir; a princess of the royal family may have survived. If she turned up and fixed all this, I’d happily return to Ram. You could...come with me, you know? It’d be like old times.
Celica: Come on! There’s no secret princess! The Zofian royal family is dead!
Alm: But how can you be—
Celica: Enough! Just...enough. Go fight your war if it makes you happy! I’m going to the Temple of Mila. ...Good-bye, Alm. You... you stubborn JERK!
Alm: Celica... You’re one to talk about stubbornness, geez... Ah, damn it all. I didn’t even get the chance to ask her about the village... About why she had to leave. Oh, Celica... I had so much I wanted to say to you. How did it end up like this?

@Narration 
Narrator: Alm and Celica’s heartfelt reunion was dashed by heated words, and once again, the two were parted. One chose the battlefield... the other, the Mother’s succor. And while they both sought to attain peace in their own way, their chances of finding it together seemed to grow increasingly slim.
/***EOF***/
@Dialogue 
Alm: Good. You’re all here. Let’s be on our way.
Tobin: Uhm... Are you sure about this, Alm?
Alm: Am I sure about what?
Tobin: Oh, please. About Celica! You finally see her after gods-know how long, and you end up in a spat? Hey, don’t give me that look—we all know she took off in a right huff. You two used to be inseparable. What happened?
Alm: ...That was a long time ago, Tobin. A lot’s happened—to both of us.
Tobin: Hmm... Well, I’m no expert, but I think a normal person would just apologize. I’m sure she hasn’t gotten too far yet, what with those skinny legs and all...
Gray: Seriously, Tobin? Y-you’re passing out relationship advice now? Give it a rest—it’s not like every fight has a right side and a wrong side.
Tobin: Get over it, Gray. I’m well aware of that! It’s just... Well, this could be the last time Alm and Celica see each other. You’d think they’d wanna part on a...less-sour note.
Alm: It’s all right, Tobin. I appreciate what you’re saying. But this is something for me and Celica to work out on our own. Besides, I’m the leader of the Deliverance now. It wouldn’t be right to keep everyone waiting on my own private business.
Tobin: Alm...

Celica: *sigh*
Mae: Celica! Hey, Celica!
Celica: ...Hmm? I’m sorry, Mae. I was lost in thought. Did you need something?
Mae: Me? Naw, I’m fine like always. But what about YOU?! That guy leading the Deliverance is a friend of yours, right? I know we’re in a rush, but surely we had time for you to say good-bye!
Celica: It’s fine. That isn’t necessary.
Mae: But Celi—
Celica: Mae, I need to reach the Temple of Mila as soon as possible. I know the Mother will reveal a path to save Zofia that doesn’t involve violence.
Mae: I dunno about this, Boey... Celica’s acting all weird. I wonder what happened?
Boey: Well, can you blame her? I’m sure she’s more than a little conflicted. If the Deliverance defeats Desaix and drives the empire back, what next? Zofia will need a ruler, and who better than a boy who cast off tyranny’s yoke?
Mae: What?! But Celica’s the rightful heir!
Boey: Yeah, but she can’t exactly just go and announce that to everyone. If she did, she’d be made to lead the Deliverance effort herself. Believe me, that’s the last thing Celica wants right now.
Mae: I hate it when you make sense. Boey. But that just means we have to haul tail to the Temple of Mila! The Earth Mother will know what to do. She’ll take care of everything!
Boey: I pray it’s truly so simple.

Celica: Once we cross this mountain, we’ll finally reach the coast. It’s a hard climb, but I know we’ll make it.
Masked Knight: Hold. 
Celica: Hmm? Who’s there? 
Masked Knight: ...... 
Celica: You’re the one from before! I’m glad our paths have crossed again. I’d hoped for a chance to properly thank you for helping us. 
Masked Knight: I’ve no use for thanks. I come bearing a warning: proceed no further here. 
Celica: What? I must know a reason for this warning. 
Masked Knight: The terrain ahead is loose and prone to failure. Additionally, there are still forces in play who would see you harmed. If you must attain the Temple of Mila, strike west through the mountains.
Celica: West? But that’s where Alm... 
Masked Knight: You have been warned. 
Celica: Wait, please! 
Mae: And he’s gone... AGAIN. I seriously wanna know who this creepy mask guy is and why he’s following us! 
Celica: As do I, Mae. But regardless, this makes twice he’s aided us. 
Boey: And with that dire warning ringing in our ears, what is your plan, milady? Do we follow Mr. Mask’s advice and take the western route? That would be quite a detour... 
Saber: Do we have any cause to trust this masked fellow in the first place? Sure, he helped us out before, but that’s no guarantee of pure motive. 
Mae: And what was that bit about, [imitating the Masked Knight] “forces in play who would see you harmed"? [normal voice] Is he saying MORE people are going to turn up and try to kidnap Celica?! 
Celica: Hmm... No. We continue on as planned. I'm not dismissing what he said, but our purpose cannot brook delay. If we are attacked, I have faith we can prevail. Besides, even the cleverest trap will betray some sign to a watchful eye, so as long as we continue to be vigilant, we’ll be all right. 

Arcanist: Hmph. And here she is at last. Do not mistake me for the base fools who came before. My power was bestowed upon me by Jedah himself. Now go, crush the girl and the pitiful insects accompanying her!

Saber: Waugh! Earthquake?!
Mae: Gah! I c-can’t even stand!
Saber: Look out! The cliff is crumbling!
Boey: Oh, you have to be joking! As if anything else could have gone wrong on this blasted adventure!
Celica: Everyone, be careful!
Boey: Celica?! No! Don’t come any closer!
Boey: MILADY!!!

Mae: Celica, are you all right?!
Celica: (hurt grunt) ...Huh?
Masked Knight: ......
Celica: Why did I suspect I’d see you again?
Masked Knight: Are you unhurt?
Celica: It appears I am...thanks to you. I owe you an apology. You warned me this would happen, and yet I—
Masked Knight: Do not apologize, but stop allowing petty emotion to cloud your judgment. Your choices steer the fates of more than just yourself.
Celica: ...You’re right. I can offer no rebuttal.
Masked Knight: Still, there’s little sense in turning back when you’re almost through. The Zofian coast is just ahead. The road beyond should offer safe passage.
Celica: How can you be certain?
Masked Knight: My prey were kind enough to use magic potent enough to reveal their location.
Celica: Gone again, as sudden as ever. I wish he would at least offer his name.
Mae: Yeah, talk about your shady characters! Still, I s’pose he seems like a decent- enough guy.
Saber: Yeah, well, Mr. Mask seems to enjoy our company. I wager we’ll see him again. And you’re sure you’ve got no guess as to who he might be?
Celica: None. I’ve no allies left in this world, save the ones I travel with now.
Saber: Oof... Didn’t mean to sour the mood. Forget I asked.
Celica: It’s all right... But back to the matter at hand, the road is well and truly blocked now. I don’t think we’ll be heading back that way any time soon.
Boey: Then it’s a lucky thing we’ve no need to head that direction.
Celica: Now we couldn’t go to aid Alm even if we wanted to...
Boey: Milady?
Celica: It’s nothing. We’ve spent enough time here. Let’s press on.

Alm: Whoa, what’s that sound?
Clive: The ground is unstable around here. There must have been another rock slide. Some distance off, from the sound of it. We’ve no worry of harm to our men.
Alm: That’s good, but---
Mercenary: A report, sir. A cliff has given way along the eastern ridge. The route to the Zofian coast is blocked.
Alm: The eastern ridge? That’s the direction Celica was heading. Oh, Celica, please be all right.

Peddler: S’cuse me, sir! You’re Alm, yes? I’m a traveling peddler of sorts. Bit’o this and a scrap’a that. Occasionally, I even do deliveries! ...Here. This is from a lady of the cloth. “Mila's Turnwheel,” she called it. Looks mighty fancy, so it does! That’s all I know, so you’ll have to figure out the rest on your lonesome. And with that...another job well done! Safe travels now, eh?
/***EOF***/
