@Opening 
Still smarting from their bitter experience with Gharnef and the dark magic Imhullu, Prince Marth and the League regrouped and marched south- home to Altea. Once Marth's kingdom had been beautiful, blessed with rich soil and clear waters; now the eyes tended to notice instead the barren farms; the ruins; forlorn stares. Marth vowed to free Altea from its torment without any further delay.

@Intro 
Nyna: You've done it, Marth. We're here. That's Altea beneath our feet- your home.
Marth: Countless days have passed since Dolhr took my kingdom from me- days I would never have lived had it not been for my sister Elice's sacrifice, and the sacrifices of so many others...
Nyna: What became of your sister? And the rest of your family, what of them as well?
Marth: My father, as you know, died in Gra. I last saw my mother and sister the day the castle fell. I do not know if they still live...but I hope that they do. And if the enemy has them, I will rescue them. You can be sure of that.
Malledus: Sire, our preparations are complete. We are ready to march.
Marth: Thank you.
Marth: Alteans and friends of the League! Join me now! Help me set Altea free, and ensure today is the last battle my people must endure!

@Visit 
Old Man: Listen well, because this is very important. There are two villages in the northwest of Altea. The easterly village is home to a paladin named Arran while the westerly village is home to a hero named Samson. They're both fine men and warriors, but their villages have been feudin' for years. You should probably resign yourself to the fact that you'll only get one of them to join your ranks. Give it some thought: the hero to the west, or the paladin to the east?

Young Girl: A VIP card will gain you entrance to secret shops. Where are the shops? Well, that’s the secret!

Young Man: A lad named Xane has been locked up in the eastern jail. They say he’s got some sort of amazing power. Wonder what it is.

Middle-aged Man: Three orbs are enshrined at the Fane of Raman, each brimming with power. What sort of power, none can say. Well, except those who have wielded it, right?

Old Woman: The Altean army! Welcome home. It’s good to see you. These years been nowt but dark days; it’s about time we had something bright to look forward to.

Middle-aged Man: Take care when usin' a devil sword. It’s a powerful blade, to be sure- but it might just claim your life instead of your foe’s.
Young Man: Princess Elice was prepared to die that day the castle fell. But she didn't, they say. Instead of killin' her, the Dark Pontifex Gharnef spirited her off somewhere! Oh, our poor princess... I hope she's safe.

@Recruit-Visit 
Samson: My name is Samson. Once, I was a swordfighter of some renown...but that was then, and this is now. I'm happy enough with my life here in the village, but if you need another man, I will fight. Unfortunately, there has always been bad blood between our village and the next one over. They'll have closed the gates to you the moment they saw you come here. Guess that means the paladin Arran won't be fightin' with you. Them's the breaks.

Arran: Sire, my name is Arran. Once I was a captain to many knights... but, things change, and I came to live here in this village. If you need warriors for the coming struggle, I would be honored to fight. Unfortunately, there has always been bad blood between this village and our neighbors. No doubt they closed their gates to you as soon as they saw you come here. You won't be able to recruit the hero Samson now, I'm afraid.

@Recruit-Talk 
%Marth,Xane
Xane: Hey there, princey. Thanks for settin' me free! The name's Xane. I hail from a land few have heard of an even fewer have seen. I won't trouble you with the details. Me and my folk have the power to transform into other people. We can shape-shift, you see. When Doluna caught on, they started threatenin' me. Told me to join their army or "face my doom." Hah! Well, I wasn't about to waste my considerable talent on those evil coots! You, on the other hand...You've got character. Say, why don't we team up? I do owe you for savin' my hide. And I think you'll find my talents are...quite considerable.

@Boss 
Hollstadt: Well done, rabble. Anyone else would be dead by now. A shame you must end your campaign right here, before your own gates!

Hollstadt: Rrgh! General Camus... The rest... is in your... hands...

@End 
Malledus: Well done, sire! The enemy has ceased their resistance. Victory is ours!
Nyna: Bravo, Marth. On behalf of House Archanea, I wish to extend my heartfelt congratulations.
Marth: Thank you, Nyna. But it's still too soon to celebrate. We haven't freed the castle yet.
Malledus: Sire, your soldiers have assembled for the castle raid. Perhaps you could say a few words first...
Marth: Altean warriors... Brave comrades. The road has been long, but at last we have driven Dolhr from my homeland. There are not words to express my gratitude to you all. You gave Altea back to me. Thank you... Thank you. ...An army of foes still haunt my castle. I mean to kick them out. Ready, my friends? Let's send these varlets scurrying!
@Opening
One thing could always be said about Galder Harbor, the mainland port nearest Talys: it never had much in the way of riches, but neither did it have much trouble. All that changed when a pirate crew fell upon the town and made it their hideout. Here, in Galder, history records Marth’s first steps toward freeing his homeland.

@Intro 
Ogma: Prince Marth, I am Ogma, a mercenary of Talys. The king has bid me and my three men join your army. Cavalry has arrived from the west, flying Grust’s standard. They mean to take your life, sire. Be careful.

@Visit 
Young Man: A pirate callin’ himself Darros wants to talk to your prince. Says he’s washed his hands of pillagin’ and plunderin’ and wants to fight for the good of all. Hah! Right… And I’m a farmer who’s been sworn off rain…

Young Man: Curates gain experience whenever they use their staves.

Middle-Aged Man: Hammers smash right through heavy armor. You should pick one up, when you get the chance.

Old Man: Oh! Mighty prince of Altea! Please, will you save Sister Lena? She’s gone up into the Ghoul’s Teeth to tend to the sick there. We warned her, I swear we did… Lena is our angel. If something befell her, I- No, I won’t think of it. Take this gold: we’ve 5000 pieces. Just promise you’ll use it to bring her home to us unharmed.

@Recruit-Visit
Darros: Ahoy, Prince Marth, I be Darros, a simple man o’ the sea. I’ve had me fill o’ the piratin’ life, and now I be lookin’ t’start anew. What say ye? Make me yer matey, and I swear t’pull me load.

@Recruit-Talk
%Caeda,Castor
Caeda: Castor?! It is you, isn’t it? Must even good men like you betray Talys now?
Castor: Princess Caeda? Oh…I’m sorry, but me mother’s sick, and the medicine don’t buy itself, see…
Caeda: So you agreed to fight for the pirates in exchange for coin…All right then. If it’s gold you need, take mine. Here, this is all I have. Take it, and go to your mother’s side.
Castor: But Princess…I betrayed you! …Ach, I’ve been a fool! Forgive me, Princess. Let me fight for you now. Me life is yours.

@Battle-Talk
%Caeda,Ogma
Caeda: Ogma!
Ogma: Princess...
Caeda: I never got to thank you for coming along with us. There's no swordsman I trust more. I've seen your strength.
Ogma: You don't need to thank me, Princess. I'm just doing my job. Speaking of which, your father would flay me if you came to any harm. Do me a favor, and leave the dangerous fighting to me and my men.
Caeda: I don't need protecting, Ogma. ...I've got another job for you. Protect Marth for me.
Ogma: But, Princess...
Caeda: He's very important to me. And the world... But mostly to me. So do as I ask, Ogma. Keep him safe. That's my first and last request.
Ogma: Very well. How could I say no to you?
Caeda: Thank you, Ogma. I knew you'd understand. All right, I have to go. But I hope we get to talk like this more. You're a good listener.
Ogma: ...Princess
Caeda: Yes?
Ogma: You keep yourself safe, too. Marth would grieve if anything befell you.
Caeda: Fair enough. Thank you, Ogma. You're very kind.

%Castor,Marth
Castor: Prince Marth, I am Castor of Talys. I wish to add my bow to your strength.
Marth: Of course. Caeda told me about you.
Castor: You know, she’s always been very kind to me, sire, even before I left Talys. And look how I’ve repaid her…
Marth: Castor, you can still show her your heart is true. Let the battles to come be what defines you!

@Boss
Gomer: The gall of ye, defyin' me crew! I'll put an axe square between yer eyes! Ye ain't leaving here alive. I swear it on the rickety peg leg o'Shanty Pete!

Gomer: Augh... Fiends, ye be...

@End 
Villager: You have our gratitude, sire, for finally chasin’ those pirates away. Now, as I hear it, you plan to march on to Aurelis…That’ll take you right up through the Ghoul’s Teeth. With all due respect, sire, you’re taking a great risk crossin’ those mountains that’s Soothsire territory. The Soothsires are fearsome bandits, always raidin’ the villages and harryin’ what travelers dare pass by. And the swordsman with ’em- goes by the name o’ Navarre- he’s a terror with a blade, so they say. If you go up there, keep your wits about you- or you won’t come back down.
@Opening
Marth, prince of Altea was lucky. Though Dolhr took from him his kingdom and all but a handful of knights, they could not take his life. Marth lived and made it to the eastern isle of Talys. Talys was a small border kingdom, with no grand order of knights to boast of, but its king selflessly gave Marth use of the isle's eastern fortress. And as he saw the boy shake with anger and grief, he also gave wise counsel: "Prince Marth," he said, "I do not doubt you love your sister something great. But you must be patient... Time is on your side. If you stay here, and grow stronger, a time will come when you can help her." So Marth stayed in Talys, protected by its kind people, and the years went by...

@Intro
Jagen: Sire! You've a visitor from the castle. It's Princess Caeda!
Marth: Caeda, what is it? You look white as a sheet!
Caeda: Marth, come quickly! It’s the castle... Galdr's pirates attacked from out of nowhere... They stormed the gates and cut down everyone in their path! I fear for my father's life...
Marth: Steady, Caeda. You did well to come find us. Altea's bravest knights aren't about to hand Talys to that flock of seafowl. Come, we'll make for the castle now!

@Visit
Old man: Villages will keep their gates open for Prince Marth, but he must be quick – if a thief reaches a village before the prince does, there may not be any more village left to visit.

Young man: I hear you need a high weapon level to wield the strongest weapons. Another thing: Keep your fliers away from those enemy archers!

Young man: A knight belongs on the front lines, if you ask me. That thick armor can take a lot of abuse, so they should be up front protecting the other units.

Teenage boy: Galder? That's the harbor town west of Talys out beyond the water. These days, a pirate by the name of Gomer calls the shots there. The whole town's at the mercy of his crew.

Old woman: A man of the staff by the name of Wrys lives in the village south of the castle. He was hopin' to meet your prince.

Old man: Prince Marth! 'Tis good you stopped by. The villagers have collected 10,000 gold pieces. If it please you, use the money to arm your warriors, and rid our land of those pirates.

@Recruit-Visit
Wrys: I am Wrys, a humble curate. I cannot fight, but this staff I carry can heal your wounded. Take me with you, and you'll be very glad you did.

@Boss
Gazzak: The might of Altea, ye say, now? Har! Ye sprogs look t’be a mite short o’mighty t’me.

Gazzak: Rrgh... Ye'll pay, dog...

@End
Talys King: Ah, Prince Marth! You have saved us in our hour of need. Please accept my thanks. Lad, I believe you are ready. If you wish to seek out allies in Aurelis, I will give you what soldiers I can to see you arrive there safely. Captain Ogma is a fine swordsman, brave and true. I know he and his fighters will serve you well. Another thing...During your travels, you are certain to meet many who despise Dolhr. Some may be hiding in villages; other may have been captured or forced to fight against their will or better judgment. It falls upon you to find these individuals and win them over your cause. Understood, lad? Then go! The time has come! Be patient, steady, strong: I know you will do great things.@Opening 
Having won the day and putting Camus and his Sable Order to rout, Marth and the League moved on to the mountains in eastern Grust, to crush the last of the opposition. The surviving Grustian soldiers, in a mad attempt to hang on to their lives, took all the residents of a nearby village hostage to keep Marth from striking. However, they could not have picked a worse village to harass...

@Intro 
Larissa: Have the villagers given up struggling yet?
Enemy Soldier: With that ogre on the loose? Hardly, sir. All of our soldiers together still can’t contain him. The other villagers have fled into the caverns, out of reach.
Larissa: What? Grr, enough of this! The League will be here soon. Take your positions! We’ll deal with them first and cut that giant down to size later.

Old Woman: Ymir, you’re hurt!
Ymir: Am I? I hardly feel it.
Old Man: Why would you try to take on an entire army just for our sake?
Ymir: Because you treat me like a human being. Do I need another reason?
Old Woman: Ymir... thank you.
Ymir: I’ll be standing guard outside the cavern. Nobody will hurt you, I swear it.

@Battle-Talk
%Marth,Ymir 
Marth: Who are you? You don’t seem to be one of Grust’s soldiers.
Ymir: You just keep your distance. I’m not letting anyone near the villagers in here, and that includes you!
Marth: You wrong me, sir. I’m here to rout the last of Grust’s army. To save you.
Ymir: Yeah? Well, they said the same thing when they led us down here. And look where that got us. I’m not fallin’ for the same lies twice!
Marth: I speak the truth. But, if my word is not good enough, so be it. Stand aside and watch us fight. Let the battle prove I mean what I say. Agreed? Either way, you are in danger here. Take the villagers and hide until this is over.
Ymir: ...So I’m supposed to just sit here, when I could be fightin’?
Marth: Just give me a chance to prove I’m here to protect you.
Ymir: ...Fine. I’ll stay out of it. For now. But if I find you’re lyin’ to me, I’ll split you right down the middle!

@Recruit-Battle 
Ymir: The villagers are countin’ on me. I won’t let you through!

Ymir: Rrgh... I’m sorry... I tried...

@Boss
Larissa: We’ll never surrender to you Akaneian rabble! Long live Grust!

Larissa: Rebel... scum...

@End 
Old Man: Prince Marth, thank you. Those soldiers told us they’d protect us when they led us down here... but they were just using us as leverage, hostages to keep you at bay! If you hadn’t shown up, they might have just killed us outright in the end...

Ymir: Prince Marth, sorry I doubted you.
Marth: Well, at least we’ve cleared up the misunderstanding.
Ymir: Since you came to the villagers’ rescue, how ’bout I help you out as a way of sayin’ thanks?
Marth: You mean... join our army?
Ymir: I’m strongest in the land! Well, second strongest, at least. I can hold my own in battle. But if you don’t want a monster in your ranks, I understand...
Marth: Monster? You’re a giant among men, to be sure, but a hero as well! Any warrior who can fend of an entire army is welcome among us!
Ymir: Then count me in! Let’s see how many more armies break themselves against me, eh!@Opening
After a hard battle, Marth’s Altean Army- for it had grown to be called such- set foot at last in the kingdom of Aurelis. However, joining his might to that of the Aurelians would have to wait. As Marth descended into the vast green lea separating his troops from theirs, he heard a terrible sound: the galloping of enemy destriers, far away…then closer… Then far too close.

@Intro 
Malledus: Aurelis, at last…The enemy will have sent their forces to meet us.
Marth: Grust, Dolhr, Gra..We’re up against their standing armies, and we must brace ourselves for it.
Malledus: Sire, I believe it prudent that we start taking time to prepare our troops before each battle. We should select the warriors best suited for the situation and outfit them with the right weapons and items accordingly.
Marth: All right, that’s sound advice- I believe I’ll take it.

Bentheon: An unknown army to the south? That must be the Altean princeling and his band of lickspittles. If they think we’ll sit by and let them join forces with the Aurelians, then they have another think coming. With this ridersbane, I’ll litter the lea with their cavalry!

@Visit
Young Man: Weapons can be crafted of iron, steel, or silver, each metal more powerful than the last. You’’l need to raise your weapon level accordingly, though, before you can use them.

Middle-aged Man:“When facing armored knights or generals, you’ll want to arm yourself with a sword they call an armorslayer. Then there’s the ridersbane, which makes short work of cavaliers and paladins- but only knights and cavalry can wield it. The rapier is effective against armored units AND cavalry. But you need to be a prince to wield that one! Also, keep in mind that weapons wear down with use and eventually break.

Young Man: General Bentheon who guards the castle was carrying a ridersbane last I saw. Keep your cavaliers away, or that weapon could spell the end of ‘em.

Old Man: Did you know you can use keys to unlock doors and lower bridges? …You did? Ahem! Right, of course you did.

Middle-aged Man: There’s no terror like the dracoknight. One false move when they’re flyin’ about, and you can kiss your life goodbye.

Old Woman: Kind Altean, this kingdom is in dire need of a savior. We’ve saved up 5,000 gold and poured our prayers into every coin. Please, use this money to answer them.

@Recruit-Visit
Merric: Aha! Prince Marth. We meet again.
Marth: …Huh? Merric?! Merric, is that you?
Merric: Well, yes, sire, last I looked. Whilst studying magic in Khadein, I caught wind of a war brewing and decided to seek you out.
Marth: I see… Thank you, then. I need friends like you on the battlefield. You will fight with us, of course?
Merric: Of course! ‘Twould be a passing shame if you didn’t get to see me flex a little magic muscle. Wait till I show you my latest: Excalibur!

@Recruit-Battle
Matthis: Lena… Where are you? What I would give to hear your voice just once before I die…

Matthis: Lena… Forgive your…fool of a brother…

@Recruit-Talk
%Lena,Matthis
Lena: Matthis? Is that you?
Matthis: Lena?! What are you doing on a battlefield?
Lena: I was attacked by bandits in the Teeth while tending to the sick there, and these people saved me. The real question is, what are YOU doing on a battlefield- least of all this one!
Matthis: I’m not here by choice, sister of mine. Since you left, Macedon has only gotten worse and worse. They forced me to enlist- you know I hate warfare, but it was into the army or onto the chopping block.
Lena: Shame on you, Matthis. If you’re going to fight, then at least fight for something you believe in. Medon has done terrible things: marrying their might to Doluna, helping them torment people…Brother, it’s not too late. You could join Altea’s forces. They’re good people you know. Prince Marth would welcome you. They all would.
Matthis: …All right, then. If I’m gonna to die, I’d rather die as one of the dashing than one of the dastardly. You know, Lena, you always were the reliable one and now you’re all grown up…I thought for sure you’d have already settled down with your one true love.
Lena: T-true love? I’ve…I’ve met no such man, Matthis.
Matthis: Hmm, is that so? I’ll bet you haven’t… Well, you just be careful. There are plenty of thieves out there who would steal a girl’s heart.

@Battle-Talk 
%Marth,Matthis
Marth: You must be Matthis, Sister Lena’s-
Matthis: ACK! Y-you’re Prince Marth! Aieee! S-s-stay your rapier, I beg you!
Marth: …What has gotten into you?
Matthis: You mean…you haven’t come to stick me like a pig for fighting under the Macedonian standard?
Marth: Er, no…
Matthis:“Really?
Marth: Really and truly.
Matthis: Oh! Uh, right then… Sorry about that little display. I guess Lena was right. Just goes to show not all princes are cut from the same cloth!
Marth:“What do you mean?
Matthis: Oh, well, our prince- Prince Michalis of Macedon, that is- he’s strong, and proud…and an utter tyrant. They say he put the soldiers who look the most scared in the front lines on purpose.
Marth: Hmm… Prince Michalis of Medon…
Matthis: Don’t worry, sire, I won’t mistake you for him again! Altean princes I can trust!

@Boss 
Bentheon: You can defy us, yes... But you will never defeat us.

Bentheon: W...what...

@End 
Elder: Prince Marth, you have our thanks for liberating the south castle. You’ll find Captain Hardin protecting the king and the lady Nyna at the Northern Fortress, located in Aurelis. When you find him, please be sure to give him this silver sword.@Opening 
After Medeus's demise, Dolhr would relax its shadowy grip on the land and fade into obscurity: the Empire was finished. The fires of war that had raged across Archanea would die, and light would come to take darkness's place. But before any of that came to pass, there were a few final moments of Marth's tale that need telling...

@Dialogue 
^start
Caeda: Marth, you did it. It's finally over.
Marth: I've waiting a long time for this day. And now I'm not entirely certain what to do with it...
Caeda: Marth... um, we haven't talked much since leaving Talys. But I thought.. Do you know where you will be going?
Marth: To Altea, of course. War has left my kingdom in ruins. I cannot waste another day; I must return to help rebuild.
Caeda: So... I suppose that means you have bid Talys farewell for good...
Marth: Don't be silly, Caeda. I need to at least go thank your father and tell him the fighting is done.
Caeda: My father...? Marth, I'm not asking about my- Never mind. Please excuse me...
Nyna: Marth, did something happen? I just passed Caeda, and she looked heartbroken...
Marth: No... Well, we were just talking. And she asked me...
Nyna: Ha ha, oh, Marth... How can a man who faced the Shadow Dragon be so desperate to avoid facing his own feelings?
Marth: I- my- what? I don't know what you are talking about.
Nyna: You wish to send Caeda home to Talys, then, and return to Altea alone? That is what you want?
Marth: Well, that's where we both belong. I don't see what my wants have to do with anything.
Nyna: Clearly not. Marth, if you have anything to say to Caeda, say it now. Love cannot always make the leap from heart to heart by itself; sometimes you must speak it aloud and give it wings. Surely a great leader like you can muster the courage for that?
Marth: .....
Marth: Caeda... might I, er, have a moment?
Caeda: .....?
Marth: I did not speak with my heart before. When I said I would go to Altea, I... Well, I had meant... I hoped you would be at my side.
Caeda: .....!
Marth: As you said, we have not spoken much since Talys. With you, I felt I never had to say a word. If the battle started to take its toll, you were always there... close by... I would see you there, so beaut- ahem, so brave... and I would, um,.... derive! Yes, derive great strength! Derive... ....Ugh, why is this so difficult?! Caeda, I'm just trying to tell you I-
Caeda: Marth... Shh. Me too... Me too.

Nyna: Well done, Marth. Our struggle is finally over. You have saved our world.
Marth: Not just me. Many fought at my side... And died.
Nyna: Marth... You loved her, didn't you? Caeda.
Marth: ...She was the one I most wanted to keep safe. But I failed, and I have lost her forever... It occurs to me now that perhaps she was the one protecting me all along. Caeda... Why did you take up arms with a fool like me?
Nyna: Marth, do not blame yourself. ...Remember Anri and Artemis. We are their descendants; perhaps we were always meant to share their curse as well as their blood. And... perhaps only the curse has exacted its price could our battle with the Shadow Dragon be won. This peace we have made... We must cherish it, Marth. We have both paid so dearly for it. Let us work together to ensure none must endure a tragedy like our again.
^end

@Narration 
So concludes the tale of Falchion, blade of light; Marth, its wielder; and his battle with the Shadow Dragon. Herein its events have been chronicled, that none may ever forget.@Opening 
The long war had been fought, Archanea’s many lands freed, and now the League had cornered their archenemy within his castle. They broke into four groups and stormed the four gates of Dolhr Keep- unaware that this was exactly what Medeus was expecting. Bravely, these warriors fate had chosen steeled themselves for one last struggle.

@Intro 
Marth: We made it. Now we just have to find Medeus...
Nagi: I can sense it... A sinister will is at work here...
Gotoh: Marth, you have fought splendidly.
Marth: Lord Gotoh?! What are you doing here?
Gotoh: I washed my hands of humankind and their foolish ways long ago. But you and your companions have convinced me that was a rash decision. Perhaps there is hope for you yet. Allow me to offer what help I can.
Marth: You mean you’ll fight with us?
Gotoh: Yes. I may lack the power to stop Medeus, but his minions are another story. Let this old man strike them down and clear a path for you. ...The gods have chosen you, Marth, prince of light.
Marth: Come, my friends! We have a dragon to tame! Help me confine Medeus to the shadows for all eternity and bring light back into the world!

@Flashback
Cain: His last words were as follows: “Tell my son that I leave the future of Altea and our continent in his hands.”
Malledus: Your sister knows that you are the future of Altea- nay, the whole land!

@Boss 
Medeus: Foolish humans! You dare disturb me while I slumber? Oh, how you will regret it as you die slowly...painfully...writhing in the fires of the inferno!

Medeus: Nngh... Defeated again... by humans! Know this, Altean prince... That light which surrounds you is only a temporary respite. So long as the darkness in your hearts continues to sustain me... I cannot be... destroyed...... Rrraaahhh!!!

%Nagi,Medeus 
Medeus: Hmm? So... I am not the only dragon revived. I had heard you perished the last time. No matter; you've recovered even less of your power than me. This time, you have no chance!@Opening 
Aurelis was free, but Marth and his army- now known as the Archanean League still had much work ahead of them. They followed the Middleroad south, bound for Archanea Palace- a perilous route, for it took them right into Lefcandith Valley and the jaws of trouble. The countless fortresses lining the valley made it a veritable gauntlet and compounding the danger was the presence of the Whitewings, a knightly order led by Princess Minerva of Macedon. It would be a fierce battle.

@Intro 
Minerva: General Harmein, I cannot abide by these tactics of yours. Let me attack the rebels head-on, and keep my pride as a knight of Macedon.
Harmein: Ah, you mean the same pride that cost us all those soldiers back in Aurelis? I think not, Princess. If we’re to regroup, we need to buy time. My tactics are necessary. The emperor himself has named me commander of this post. Either obey, or accept the consequences. Your little sister Maria is still under our word, is she not? What a shame it would be, if we decided we could no longer care for her…
Minerva: Enough! …I will obey. But the Altean knights are smarter than you give them credit for. They will prevail here, and you will regret having acting so rashly, General.

@Visit 
Middle-aged Man: Say, did you happen to get a look at the axe wrapped in Minerva’s princessly fingers? No, I suppose not, otherwise you’d not be standing here. That axe is Hauteclere, the strongest axe of ‘em all. Nobody knows who made it or where, but it’s said to rival even the three regalia, Archanea’s mightiest weapons. Why, if she got her hands on Iote’s Shield (that’un being Macedon’s treasure, see) she’d be nigh unstoppable!

@Recruit-Visit
Bantu: You there. Have you come across a young girl, one by the name of Tiki? She must be found, boy! Tiki is the last of the Naga, the divine-dragon clan. Without her powers, we cannot challenge the Manaketes who serve Medeus… Me? I haven’t the power. I am a fire dragon, yes… But in the name alone, in name alone. I lost my firestone in Pyrathi. Without it, I cannot do battle. …You will be traveling much, yes? I wish to go with you. Perhaps together we can find Tiki.

@Battle 
Minerva: Fie, enough! I’ve no stomach for these cat-and-mouse tactics. Come, Whitewings, we fly! Hyah!

@Character-Falls
Minerva: Rrgh… I can’t keep up the fight with these wounds… I must withdraw.

Palla: I serve Princess Minerva, not Grust. This battle is over.

Catria: The commander left? Then I’ve no reason to stay.

Est: Sorry, General. My place is with the commander.

@Boss 
Harmein: Curse Minerva and her pride! Grr, no matter. If I am to die here, then I won't be dying alone!

Harmein: Aaargh...Traitors...every...where...

@End 
Malledus: Prince Marth, I was wondering if we might talk about the Manaketes.
Marth: Manaketes? You mean the dragonkin?
Malledus: Yes, sire. I was not sure how much knowledge you had of the Manaketes. The Manaketes inhabited our continent long before the dawn of humanity. However, ordinarily their draconic disposition stayed suppressed; their power sealed within special stones. Thus rather than terrorizing humankind, they chose to live simple, peaceful lives in the quieter reaches of the world. However, a century ago, something changed. Medeus, the Shadow Dragon, surfaced in the Dolhr region and created what would be a great empire there. His forces invaded the human realm, and in the blink of an eye, he had subjected all of the land. It was then, in that darkest hour, that a young man named Anri appeared, and rose against the Shadow Dragon. In his head was a shining blade of light- Falchion- which he plunged into Medeus- and the tyrant was no more. Anri went on to found Altea- and the rest, I believe, you know.
Marth: Yes, Malledus… Is that what this was about? I do know my own kingdom’s history. And I know what I must do, now that Medeus has revived and restored Dolhr to its former might.
Malledus: You are Anri’s last male descendant, the only one who can wield Falchion. You must find the blade that was taken, and put an end to Doluna and its misguided Manakete rulers.
Marth: I will finish what my father started. I will avenge him, and bring light back into our world.@Opening 
The League had reached Archanean soil, so Marth gave himself leave to recuperate in Port Warren, a harbor town known for commerce. Coin alone kept the town free and they paid Dolhr dearly in taxes to preserve their autonomy. Naturally, then, theirs was a warm welcome when the Archanean League arrived. Marth's soldiers were glad to rest there, nestled between mountain and sea, but their joy was spoiled by news that the enemy was fast approaching- as harsh an awakening as a rock beneath the pillow.

@Intro 
Caesar: Prince Marth, I am Caesar, and this is Radd. We are hired swords in the service of Port Warren. Grust has gathered its knights by the fortresses to the north. It's dangerous for you to stay here. Thankfully, the eastern castle has been left almost entirely unguarded; that's the place to strike. Please be careful, sire. We'll be fighting with you all the way.

@Visit
Old Woman: They say a princess of Macedon is being held captive inside Castle Deil. That's odd, don’t you think? Why would Dolhr imprison their own ally?

Young Man: I saw loads of enemy soldiers up by the northern fortresses! They’ll be pouring out of the gates any minute now. You’d better send someone to bar the exits before they do!

@Recruit-Battle
Roger: I bear you no ill will, but what can I say? A war's a war.

@Recruit-Talk 
%Caeda,Roger
Caeda: Good day, sir.
Roger: Ack!
Caeda: Peace, I’ve no wish to fight you. My name is Caeda. I hail from Talys.
Roger: Wh-what are you talking to me for?! This is a battlefield!
Caeda: Might I trouble you by asking your name, good sir?
Roger: M-my name? That’s- It’s Roger... Why?
Caeda: Hee hee, forgive me, Roger, it’s just you looked sweet and kind. I just had to stop and talk to you. Tell me: do you believe in love? Oh, listen to me. I’m sure you already have a sweetheart back in Grust.
Roger: What?! No, no! I... mean, er, I’m quite unattached at the moment.
Caeda: Roger, think of the children- the poor women and children who shed tears every day this war drags on. I joined the Archanean League to put an end to it, but I just...just...*Sniff* Oh, Roger, doesn't it break your heart?
Roger: Aye, miss. There, there. I, too, wish nothing more than for this needless war to end.
Caeda: Then...would you consider fighting with us to end it?
Roger: What? Oh heavens, no... I’m sorry, but I could never betray my kingdom.
Caeda: Ah, yes, I see. You must have family back in Grust who are counting on you.
Roger: No, not especially. My parents are dead, and it’s not as if I’ve a girl to call my own. But Grust is my home- always has been. I won’t betray her.
Caeda: And I cannot convince you to change your mind?
Roger: I’m afraid not, miss.
Caeda: All right, sorry to bother you. But I’m glad we had this chance to talk, Roger. You’re every bit the man I thought you were. Goodbye, then...
Roger: Wait- you’re leaving?!
Caeda: Well, yes, Roger, I must! Every moment I stay here, I put you at risk. What if your comrades thought you were conspiring with the enemy? No, I must go...
Roger: ...You’re very kind, Caeda. Dare I say, we don’t have girls quite like you back in Grust. Um, perhaps...I suppose I could...Aw, heck, I’m going with you!

@Battle-Talk 
%Marth,Roger
Roger: Prince Marth? I’m Roger, a Grustian soldier. Well, at least I was. I’m through fighting against you. Let me join your League.
Marth: Well, certainly. We need all the strong allies we can get. But why the sudden change of heart?
Roger: Well, er... There’s this fetching girl named Caeda who asked me to, and, uh... What can I say? I think I’m in love. Try saying no to a girl who comes racing up to you in the heat of battle just to ask if you believe in love! Whew! I must’ve turned red as a strawberry! Heh heh...
Marth: ......

@Boss 
Kannival: W-what are you doing all the way out here? Blast, I'm finished...!

Kannival: Long...live...Grust! Nngff...

@End 
Malledus: Sire, it's too dangerous to stay here. We must flee to Pyrathi. There are risks there, too- the Pyrathi king Mannu is said to be a descendant of the dragonkin, a Manakete. Still, we've no other recourse. We'll just have to take our chances... Keep your wits about you, sire.@Opening 
Tired from so many long battles, Marth and the League arrive at last in Archanea, Princess Nyna's mother kingdom. Past the mountains lay the royal palace, known to some as Millennium Court; and within its walls awaited many treasures and captives the enemy had taken. With each step, Marth draw nearer to one of the great waypoints on his journey.

@Intro 
Marth: Nyna, soon the palace will be in sight. I...know this can't be easy for you.
Nyna: ...When the palace fell, many, many good Archaneans were killed. The royal family...My family were...Their bodies were hung before the gates as an example. I cannot unpaint that vivid picture, of my parents grotesquely changed...I feel as though I should cry, Marth; or scream. But no tears come, and I cannot chase away the sadness and rage... ...I cannot change the past. I can only shape the future. Lead the way, Marth. I am ready. Take me home.

@Visit 
Young Man: This here is Knorda, Archanea’s closest market town. Drop by the armories and vendors if you’ve an interest in rare goods.

Young Man: A gang of ruffians have rounded up some Archanean folk and are holdin! em over at the edge of town. What a world it’s become, that we’ve gotta be prisoners in our own land!

Middle-aged Man: Three ancient weapons known as the Regalia have been passed down through the generations of House Archanea: Parthia, the bow of flame; Gradivus, the lance that pierces stone; and Mercurius, the spectral sword. Only those blessed by the gods may lay hands on them- or so it goes.

Old Woman: I’m sick of war. If it ain’t the screams of battle you’re hearin! it’s the bawlin! of the widows! You all should go home to your loved ones if you ask me.

Young Man: Watch out for the ballisticians. They can fire their missiles quite a long ways. If you see they’re usin! a weapon called an arrowspate, move your fliers out of there, before their wings get clipped! Also, ballisticians have a weapon called the thunderbolt, which is particularly effective against other ballisticians.

Anna: Not everybody fighting for Grust is a bad apple, you know. Take my sweetheart, Jake. He’s got a heart of gold, that one. If you see him, tell him Anna’s worried sick about him. ’Course, my Jake won’t talk to no-one but the most beautiful of women! That’s just the way he is.

Anna: I hope this warring is over and done with soon. And I hope my Jake is well.

Anna: Jake! What are you doing back?...Oh, so you've decided to fight for the Archanean League now?...No, no, I won't stop you. Sure, I wish you'd just stay put for a change, but I know you wouldn't fight unless it were for a fine cause indeed. Go get 'em, honeycomb!

Anna: Go get 'em, Jake!

@Recruit-Visit 
Ruffian: Heh. Whadda you want? A broken nose?
Marth: I hear you are holding some Archaneans here against their will. Release them at once!
Ruffian: How ’bout I release my fist into yer- Munchin! Manaketes! The Altean army?! Aieee! Get me outta here!!!
Marth: Is everyone all right? I know you’ve been through a lot. Go home to your families.
Marth: Em? What’s wrong, lad? Why don't you go home?
Boy: Because! I have no home to go to.
Marth: You! You’re a girl! Why were you dressed as a boy?
Linde: To hide, sir. My name is Linde. My father is – was – Miloah, a pontifex. I donned men’s garb to escape Gharnef, but no sooner was I away when those ruffians grabbed me.
Marth: So you’re Linde! I’m glad you’re safe. Princess Nyna was worried about you, you know! Well, we’re all together now. I promise to keep you out of danger.
Linde: No! Let me fight. With Princess Nyna’s blessing, and the tome my father left me, I can wield Aura magic. Let me use it to avenge him. I want to destroy Gharnef myself!

@Recruit-Talk 
%Caeda,Jake 
Caeda: Hail, ballistician of Grust! Are you the one they call Jake?
Jake: Hail yourself, sugar! What's a fetching lass like you doing out here on the battlefield? And how do you know my name?
Caeda: I am Caeda of Talys. An Archanean woman by the name of Anna told me about you.
Jake: Really? Anna mentioned me? ...In a good way, right?
Caeda: She's very worried about you. She wants to know why such a good man is fighting for the wrong side.
Jake: Wrong side? Hmm... Well, I have to admit, I'm not too keen on kicking Archanea while they're down...
Caeda: They why not fight for Archanea instead? Help us defeat Grust and Dolhr, and set the world right.
Jake: Well...I don't know. I don't think it's that simple... Hmm...
Caeda: Anna would love you for it, I'm sure.
Jake: She would? Hmmm... All right, you win. But I'm doin' it for Anna- " just to be clear!

@Recruit-Battle 
Jake: I knew I wasn't cut out for the military. Well, too late now. I just hope Anna's OK...

@Battle-Talk 
%Merric,Linde
Merric: Linde, I presume? My name's Merric. Prince Marth asked me to look after you. Not that we mages need any help looking after ourselves, mind you. "
Linde: Oh, you've studied magic?
Merric: Yes, in Khadein.
Linde: Khadein... The school? My father was a student there a long time ago.
Merric: The school is beautiful–was beautiful, until Gharnef took over and changed everything. I was blessed with wonderful teachers, and I found a healthy mix of friends and rivals in the other aspiring mages.
Linde: It sounds nice, I suppose. But my father was the only teacher and friend I ever needed. ......
Merric: I'm sorry, Linde...
Linde: Don't be. I'm tough like my father, too. ...Let's talk about you, Merric. And about Khadein. I've never been to a school before. How do they teach?

%Marth,Jake 
Jake: Are you the Altean prince? The name’s Jake. I just joined up.
Marth: Many thanks, Jake.
Jake: You know, I’ve been to Altea once. Have you uh... Ever paid a visit to the ecret-say op-shay there?
Marth: The what?
Jake: The secret shop! Didn’t you know there are secret shops hidden all over the continent? Well, there’s one in Altea, too.
Marth: Oh, really? Where exactly?
Jake: If I told you, it wouldn’t be much of a secret, now would it? The entrance is disguised so you can’t find it.
Marth: Disguised?!
Jake: And they don’t let anybody in without a VIP card. So don’t expect to waltz through the door by accident.
Marth: But how do they stay in business?
Jake: Who knows! Last I heard, they were desperate for customers.
Marth: Then maybe they should reopen as a "tell your friends " shop.
Jake: Ha! Very clever. Anyway, you should drop by when you’re in the neighborhood.
Marth: But I don’t know- Ugh. Never mind.

@Boss 
Khozen: Burn...! Burn, till your blood boils and your flesh cooks!

Khozen: Emperor Medeus...I have failed you...

@End 
Marth: Good news, Nyna! We've wrested control of the gates from the enemy.
Nyna: Then...we've won!
Marth: Not quite yet. We can enter the palace, but Dolhr still holds strong inside her walls. Also, a number of knights are being held captive inside.
Nyna: Loyal soldiers who fought for their kingdom and their people...Marth, I wish to free them as soon as possible.
Marth: I understand. We should strike now, then, before enemy reinforcements can arrive. I believe we have a good chance.
Nyna: Thank you, Marth. As always, I am counting on you. Worry no more.@Opening
The Macedon that Minerva and Maria remembered best was one of peace: a quiet, prosperous kingdom famed for the flying beasts favored by dracoknights. But then their brother, Prince Michalis, succumbed to his lust for power. Despite his sisters’ adamant opposition, he swore allegiance to Dolhr; and when Macedon’s Dragoons took flight, the world suffered. Even now that the tides had turned, Michalis took position for one last stand. Dracoknights filled the sky end to end, eager to pluck Marth from the Earth.

@Intro
Michalis: Lord Gotoh, the League has begun its attack. I wish for you to move someplace safe until the fighting has ended.
Gotoh: Why not just end this folly now, Michalis?
Michalis: Folly? What folly?
Gotoh: You loved your younger sister so much. It pains me to see you quarrel. If you and Minerva had worked as one, Macedon might have become a great kingdom- greater even than Archanea, perhaps. But instead, you let Gharnef trick you into destroying your family, and your kingdom with it.
Michalis: ...I cannot undo what is done. My father’s blood will always be on my hands, just as Minerva’s betrayal of her brother and country will be on hers. And Macedon has not been destroyed, not yet. So long as I carry Iote's Shield, the League’s arrows cannot fell me.
Gotoh: Very well. And if you win? What then?
Michalis: If I win, I will tell you. Right now, my only goal is to gut that Altean prince who leads the League. My pride as Macedonian king rests upon it.
Gotoh: I see... Then we’ve nothing more to discuss, have we?
Gotoh: The weight of his father’s murder threatens to crush him... Poor boy...Poor fool.

@Visit 
Old Woman: A great sage lives in the village to the north. He’s not very sociable, though. Hardly anyone ever sees him.

Gotoh: Marth, Marth, why did you not heed me? Why did you not bring the two orbs? Without them, I cannot make Starlight for you. You will not be able to break through Gharnef’s Imhullu magic, not take Falchion from his clutches. Without Anri’s sword, your battle with Medeus will be fraught with peril. If you still mean to face him, you will need all the strength you can muster, every advantage you can find. If you have weapons like the sword Mercurius or the lance Gradivus, the fight may not be lost... Hmm... I, too, may be able to help in some other way. Let me think on it. Regardless, your quest has just become more difficult than you realize. I hope you are ready.

Gotoh: You have the Lightsphere and Starsphere with you? Well done! Now I can create Starlight for you.
Gotoh: ...There. It is finished. Take this with you; it is the only magic capable of breaking through Imhullu. Use it to stop that fiend Gharnef once and for all.

@Boss
Michalis: Made it this far, have you? Don’t gloat yet. My Dragoons and I still rule these skies!

%Minerva,Michalis
Michalis: Minerva, I have missed you, Sister. Let us embrace one last time.
Minerva: Michalis...
Michalis: Well? Strike! A moment’s hesitation spells death on the battlefield. I know I taught you better.
Minerva: You will not lay down your lance and walk the right path?
Michalis: Don’t be a child. There are no right paths; just mine and yours, two that will never cross.
Minerva: Very well. Then you leave me no choice. Embrace you I shall, Brother!

%Maria,Michalis
Michalis: M-Maria? What are you doing here?

%Catria,Michalis 
Michalis: The Whitewings? Ha! Come to try and slay your king?

%Palla,Michalis 
Michalis: The Whitewings? Ha! Come to try and slay your king?

%Est,Michalis 
Michalis: The Whitewings? Ha! Come to try and slay your king?

%Marth,Michalis 
Michalis: I’ve been waiting for you, Altean whelp. I swear on my crown, you will die!

Michalis: Aaagh! I am finished. Forgive me, my people.

@End 
Marth: First General Camus of Grust... Now Prince Michalis of Macedon. Men of such promise... Had the times been different, the two might have led illustrious lives.
Malledus: Yes, Prince Michalis was a brilliant man with great things ahead of him. But in the end, the rashness of youth did him in.
Marth: Only because Gharnef found his weakness and exploited it. Until we stop that fiend, this spiral of misery will never cease.
Malledus: Then shall we go to Thabes? Lord Gotoh said the city lies someplace far to the north of Khadein.
Marth: Yes, in the heart of the desert...
Malledus: Thabes is an old city... None in recent memory have gone there and returned alive. Within its walls remain many powerful apparatus crafted of long-forgotten magic. Lord Gotoh believes Gharnef is harnessing their power, and that is why he wields such influence over the continent.
Marth: And he has Imhullu as well... This will be a struggle.
Marth: Still, Gharnef’s reign must end. The world was so much more beautiful before he painted it red...@Opening 
Khadein, city of magic. Ever since Gharnef named himself ruler of this mecca for the magically inclined, the sands surrounding it had run red. Many knights had tried to oust Gharnef, but what defense did they have against the mages the fiend had bent to his purpose? One by one the heroes fell to blades unseen and fires within their armor; and it was not long at all before Khadein's wickedness outstripped its wisdom.

@Intro 
Gharnef: What? The dregs of Archanea have come to challenge my kingdom? Ha ha ha... Really, do they think people have not tried before? So long as I possess this Imhullu magic, they cannot snuff my life out. No one can. As for the White Sage... He will trouble me no longer. With the dragon-goddess right where I want her, in the Fane of Raman, there is no way for Gotoh's Starlight to disperse the shadows that guard me.

@Visit 
Young Man: Fight Gharnef? Are you mad? You'll never stop him! His magic, Imhullu, summons up foul spirits that protect him! Only the White Sage Gotoh's magic can undo him: the magic of Starli- Whoa, there. I need to hold my tongue! He might be listenin' with those wizard-ears of his, for all I know. Go on, work a little magic yourself and disappear, huh? Shoo!

Young Man: You think those clothes o'metal will protect you from mages? Ha! Armor won't save you. You need a Barrier staff! Another thing, about Gharnef- here, move in closer in case he's listenin'. You don't want to fight him head on. He never stays put in Khadein for very long anyway. If he tries to attack you, ride it out. Good things come to those who wait.

@Boss 
Gharnef: You dare oppose me, fool? You must not value your life. Cower before the might of the magic Imhullu: once forbidden, now unleashed!

@Battle 
Gharnef: Altean prince! I fear you are not quite imposing enough to warrant my staying here. But if it's Falchion you want, come and take it. I shall be waiting at the Temple of Thabes.

@End 
Marth: No Falchion...The battle was for naught.
Gotoh: ...Marth...Prince Marth.
Marth: Huh? Who are you?!
Gotoh: My name is Gotoh...I am speaking to you from Macedon through magic.
Marth: Gotoh...the White Sage?
Gotoh: Some have used that name, yes. You must listen to me. As you suspect, Gharnef has made off with Falchion. With Imhullu and Falchion in the sorcerer's grasp, Dolhr now must think twice before challenging him. Gharnef knows this. And one day, he plans to conquer Dolhr and rule the entire world.
Marth: Is Imhullu so powerful a magic, then?
Gotoh: Yes. The mage who wields it cannot be killed; cannot be so much as scratched. I was the magic's guardian once. Knowing its forbidden power could work terrible evils, so I kept it close. But Gharnef, one of my two pupils- Miloah being the other- took the forbidden tome and vanished. Now you are paying for my carelessness. Forgive me. I wish to make amends by teaching you the only way to undo Imhullu's power.
Marth: Which is...?
Gotoh: It is called Starlight. One blast is enough to break through Imhullu's shadowy protection. But to cast the magic, you need two orbs: the Lightsphere and the Starsphere. Heed me, Marth. When you find the Lightsphere and Starsphere, bring them to me. Then I will give you the magic you seek. Then you will have Starlight, and with it, Gharnef's reign will end.

@Opening 
After taking back the palace, the League rode across Akaneia, freeing the greater part of the kingdom as they went- all except the west. A landed knight there named Horace, who had betrayed Akaneia, to join Doluna, continued to stubbornly hold out against Marth’s forces. Nyna could not fathom why such a fiercely loyal knight would turn to treachery, but with her other knights calling for Horace’s blood, she had no choice but to give in and ask Marth to bring the traitor to justice.

@Intro 
Dejanira: Have you heard, Horace? I am told the rebels just recaptured the palace. That accursed Akaneian wench! Never mind Camus’s pleas. We should have put her to the sword with the rest of them…
Horace: ...
Dejanira: Hm, something bothering you, now? Don’t tell me you are toying with the idea of rejoining your motherland? Because if you do, I think you know exactly what will befall your people.
Horace: Yes, you’ve made it quite clear! I am an Akaneian knight no longer. I knew this day would come when I gave me lance to Doluna. I will not flinch.
Dejanira: Good. Then gather your soldiers and kill these rebels before they cause any more trouble.

@Battle 
Enemy Soldier: Lord Horace, our soldiers are in position.
Horace: Good.
Enemy Soldier: Shall we advance on the enemy?
Horace: ...No. That won’t be necessary. We’ll lure them in close, then strike. No one attacks unless the enemy makes a move first. Is that clear?

@Battle-Talk 
%Marth,Horace 
Marth: Lord Horace! I am Marth of Altea. I ask that you lay down your arms....
Horace: Is Princess Nyna safe?
Marth: She is- and she’s quite worried about you, sir.
Horace: So Her Highness is alive... The soldiers who died protecting her can rest in peace. ...Now then, Prince Marth. Draw your sword.
Marth: What? But...Lord Horace!
Horace:I chose to betray Akaneia, and now I must abide by that choice. Princess Nyna has returned to the palace, and Akaneia is restored. I have no regrets.

@Visit 
Old Man: Lord Horace, who rules this land, used to be a knight of Akaneia. After the palace fell, though, he bent his knee to the Dolunian emperor and has been servin’ him ever since. For that, folks call him a traitor and say he tarnished his knightly brethren’s reputation. Well, that’s a load of hogwash. He broke his knightly oaths to protect us! Not ’cause he’s some traitor. Please, sire, you have to help clear his name. Here…Lord Horace’s father, bless him, gave me this weapon as a gift long ago. I know he’d be glad to see it used to restore his son’s honor.

Young Woman:  Are you with the League? Please, sir, I’m beggin’ ya...You have to help Lord Horace. He’s always looked out for us small folk, before and after he inherited the land. He’s a pillar of strength, he is. We’d be dead if he hadn’t made the tough choices he did. The least we can do is rescue him from his plight now. Here, I’ve got this magic tome one of our villagers found after the last battle on our soil. You take it, and find some way to save him. Promise!

@Boss 
Dejanira: Vexatious rebels! I’ll skewer you like rabbits!

Dejanira: Nngh! You'll... pay...

@End 
Horace: What!? Dejanira’s been killed?! Then... it’s over. Soldiers! Lay down your weapons! No more Akaneian blood shall be shed! ...Mine shall be the last.
Horace: Bravo, Prince Marth. I yield. Spare the lives of my soldiers and treat my people kindly, and you may do with me as you see fit.
Villager: No! Wait, please! Lord Horace is a good man! Doluna threatened him, said they’d raze the land corner to corner if he didn’t comply. So you see-
Horace: Hush! You’ve said enough.
Marth: But, Lord Horace...
Horace:I betrayed my fellow knights and besmirched their good name. I will not dress up my sins as kindnesses! I accept my punishment. Allow me to die a knight’s death.
Nyna:I will not!
Horace: .....! Princess Nyna?
Nyna: Horace. I heard what you said. And you have it quite right. Your crimes deserve death, or worse.
Marth: Nyna, what are you-
Nyna: But I shall give you no knight’s death. I shall give you a traitor’s life. You say you will not dress up your sins. I say you will not run from them either.
Horace: Your Highness...! Are you saying you wish me to live?
Nyna: You did all in your power to protect these people. That was honorable, Horace. But if you die today, no one will remember you for anything but your one act of betrayal. Your soldiers will have to bear that shame in your stead. Do you call that justice?
Horace: .....
Nyna: Starting today, you shall prove to the world there was value in your actions. Show us a traitor’s worth. Show us what the soldiers who fought and died for you saw to be true.
Horace: I... I do not know what to say.
Nyna:I have claimed your life, Horace. You have no say. You shall fight for us...and you shall not die. I forbid it.
Horace: Heh... Very well, Your Highness. As you command...

Marth: Nyna, we have put down the western insurgence.
Nyna: And Horace?
Marth:I am sorry...
Nyna: Poor Horace. Marth, in his heart, I do not think he truly wished to betray Akaneia.
Marth: Nor I. Doluna must have threatened to do harm to his people.
Marth: So Horace capitulated, to keep them safe... He acted to save lives, yet the world will brand him a traitor. That one word will come to define him... and none will ever know the traitor’s worth.@Opening 
The holy kingdom of Archanea had come into being six centuries earlier, when the region's numerous city-states were unified under one monarch. The first king, Adrah, had fought valiantly to accomplish this, wielding the three weapons he came to call his regalia- gifts from the gods, some said. The kingdom Adrah forged was pronounced holy; its kings were esteemed. With Archanea's aid, six more independent kingdoms sprang up in their own time. But Archanea was always the greatest - and now, Marth was about to take his first walk through its historic palace's halls.

@Intro 
Midia: Bishop, what do you make of this? I hear shouting in the corridors.
Boah: Hmm...Princess Nyna must have returned with an army in tow.
Midia: An army?! Really? Then we are saved!
Boah: Saved, perhaps...or doomed. Surely the enemy realizes we are more trouble alive than dead now.
Midia: You do not take my meaning, Bishop. By "we" I mean Archanea. Archanea is saved. If Princess Nyna has truly come to chase the enemy from our halls, to free us...Then my death will have meaning.
Boah: Ho ho...I admire your spirit, child. I always have. But think how Astram would grieve if you were to die.
Midia: I...I had hoped to see him one last time- to say goodbye. That alone I regret.
Boah: Ah, but you have not died yet. Midia. Hang on to hope.

@Boss 
Volzhin: Rebel pup! You dare defy Dolhr? Then writhe in the fires of Bolganone!

Volzhin: Do not think...you have won... Dolhr...is undying... Nngh!

@End 
Nyna: Marth, thank you. Were it not for you, I may never have seen the halls of my house again.
Marth: I could not have done it alone, Nyna. The whole Archanean League fought tooth and nail this day.
Nyna: True, and yet all the same... I have little doubt your exploits are the ones that will live on in song. I have a gift for you, to celebrate your achievements here. This bow is called Parthia. It is one of the three regalia that have been passed down through House Archanea. The other two regalia- the sword Mercurius and the lance Gradivus are not here. The enemy took them when they fled. I am sorry. I had hoped to give you all three, and thus aid you in the battles to come....
Marth: Your concern for me is more than enough, Nyna. One day, I will get your family's treasures back and use them to crush Dolhr. I swear it on this emblem of fire!@Opening 
For Gotoh to create the magic that could defeat Gharnef, he needed two orbs: the Lightsphere and the Starsphere. Marth and company set off to Chiasmir and the Fane of Raman to find them, but in their path stood a cohort of Grustian knights known as the Sable Order. The bridges across the strait would soon be choked with the brave and the dead…

@Intro 
Malledus: Prince Marth, I see them: a cohort of Grustian knights, out on the far side of the bridge. That must be the Sable Order...
Nyna: Marth, I heard the enemy forces have been spotted.
Marth: Yes, that’s right. The Sable Order, it seems
Nyna: Really? Tell me, who leads them?
Marth: Why does it matter?
Nyna: Oh... no, it’s just- they say the Sable Order is led by a brilliant general. I was... wondering if he was riding with them today.
Marth: You must mean General Camus. I am told Dolhr is not very happy with him at the moment, brilliant or not. Something about acting outside orders... They’ll be keeping him on a short leash; I don’t expect we’ll see him here.
Nyna: That... that is good news...

@Visit 
Young Man: You know how the Fane of Raman is supposed to be protected by a fearsome guardian? Well, I heard the “fearsome guardian” is nowt but a wee lass. If that’s true, you have to wonder why she’d stay all by herself in a dreary place like that. Mayhap she broke her ma’s favorite vase and got stuck there as a punishment? Ha ha, right.

@Recruit-Talk 
%Marth,Est
Est: Ah, you’re Prince Marth! I am Est, of the Medonian Whitewings- Palla and Catria’s younger sister. I’ve been looking for you. Initially I intended to join up with you along with my sisters, but then I heard Grust had made off with one of Akaneia’s three regalia- the sword Mercurius- so I flew there to get it back. This is Mercurius right here. It’s lovely, isn’t it? And powerful! In the right hands, I think you’ll find it a formidable weapon indeed.

@Battle-Talk
%Est,Catria 
Est: Catria!
Catria: Est! It's about time you made it back. I was so worried...
Est: Sorry... I won't leave you like that again. We belong together anyway. When the three of us surround an enemy, we're just about unstoppable!
Catria: True... but even so, I like having you somewhere I can keep an eye on you. Ha ha.
Est: Hey! What's that supposed to mean?

%Palla,Est 
Est: Hey, Palla. I'm not slowing you and Catria down, am I?
Palla: Why would you say that?
Est: I don't know... You and she have so much more experience. Sometimes I... I just feel like I'm not pulling my load.
Palla: Ha ha... Est... You're doing just fine. There are no half-Whitewings or almost-Whitewings. You're one of us because you're every bit as good as us. Have a little confidence.
Est: Right, confidence...
Palla: ...Feel better?
Est: Uh-huh. Thanks, Palla. It's funny... Whenever I talk to you, I calm right down. Promise you'll always be there for me, Palla.
Palla: I will... I promise.

%Minerva,Est 
Est: Commander, did anybody tell you? I flew all the way to Grust and brought back Mercurius. Pretty spiffy, huh?
Minerva: Yes, Marth told me all about it. Very brave of you to undertake such a dangerous task alone. Well done, Est.
Est: Hee hee! You mean it? Thanks, Commander! You should have seen the arrows whooshing past me left and right! But I'm a Whitewing, right? So I swooped down and let 'em have it! Just watch, though. I'll find some way to top it.
Minerva: I don't doubt it. I expect great things from you, Est.
Est: Hee hee! You mean it?

@Boss 
Sternlin: You shall not pass! Not today! Not ever!

Sternlin: You... shall... not... unnh...

@End 
Nyna: We’ve made it across the strait.
Marth: Yes. But the real battle may yet be ahead of us.
Marth: Malledus... Can we be certain the Lightsphere and the Starsphere are in the Fane of Raman?
Malledus: Yes, sire; but unfortunately, they may not be all we find. The fane is said to be guarded by a goddess, one with fearsome powers. Those who defile her sanctuary are punished by fire; none are spared from the blaze.
Nyna: Perhaps we should reconsider, Marth...
Marth: Perhaps... But if none are spared from the blaze, where do the rumors come from? Besides, we need those two orbs.
Malledus: Well, might I suggest you take in just a few able companions, and let the sleeping dragons lie?
Marth: Sage advice. I’ve no desire to tear apart a holy place, whether the goddess is home or not... I’ll choose a handful of elite to search for the orbs with me.@Opening 
With the aid of the White Sage Gotoh’s powerful Warp magic, Marth and company were transported to the faraway city of Thabes. Once, Thabes was an advanced civilization; but only its decay advanced now. The League traced the lifeless streets to the temple at the city’s heart, somewhere within its walls Gharnef was waiting, and now, Marth must wrest Falchion and his sister, Elice, from the fiend’s grip.

@Intro 
Marth: The Temple of Thabes... He’s here... somewhere...
???: Heh heh heh... Come to play, little Marth?
Gharnef: ‘Tis I, Gharnef. I have been waiting for you.
Marth: Waiting?
Gharnef: Oh yes. For you to dance around the continent, collecting powerful weapons and killing off my competition. Thanks to you, Camus and Michalis will trouble me no more. You have my gratitude, diligent prince.
Marth: You... monster!
Gharnef: Tsk, tsk, don’t spoil the moment, now. You’re about to do me one last favor... Die, Prince. Heh heh heh!
Marth: That’s what you think. I have something else in mind.
Gharnef: Heh, is that a threat? If you mean to harm me, first you’ll have to find me, boy.
Marth: And what is that supposed to mean?
Malledus: My prince! Several sorcerers have been sighted throughout the temple! They’re... They all seem to be Gharnef, sire!
Gharnef: Heh heh! Fight, boy, fight! Wear yourself thin fighting puppets and shadows! But the only way you’ll claim Falchion is by defeating the real me. Heh heh, ha ha ha ha!

@Battle 
Malledus: Sire, we’ve pinpointed where Gharnef is keeping the magical apparatus that gives him his power.
Marth: Where?
Malledus: The Tower of Thabes atop this very temple.
Marth: Then we don’t need to fight Gharnef... If we find those apparatus.
Malledus: Gharnef’s power- a great deal of power- will be sealed forever.
Marth: Then let’s hurry and seize the entrance to the tower!
Malledus: A word of caution, sir. Stopping the apparatus will not undo Imhullu power- only Gharnef’s. He still has Falchion in his keeping; if you want the blade back, you must defeat him now, before seizing the tower.

@Boss 
Gharnef: Heh heh heh... You dare challenge me, fool? You must not value your life. Cower before the might of the dark magic Imhullu!

Gharnef: Agh! What... Where did you get...Starlight...? Still, you are a fool...Your power is not enough to defeat Medeus... I shall be waiting in the pits of the inferno... for when he sends you to join me... Heh heh, ha ha ha!

@End 
Marth: Malledus! Quickly! Find the apparatus and shut them down!
Malledus: Right away, sire!
Gharnef: ...Blast! How... how did they find the apparatus? All my power... Still, they are fools if they think they can defeat Medeus with such cheap tricks... Heh heh, ha ha ha!
Malledus: Gharnef is getting away, sire! Shall we give chase?
Marth: No... let him go. Without his magical apparatus, he has no power left to abuse.
Allied Solider: Sire! We found Princess Elice up in the Tower of Thabes! She’s on her way to see you right- Ah, here she is!
Marth: Elice!!!
Elice: Marth! Oh look at you. A man grown!
Marth: Sister, I was so worried. None had seen you since the castle fell. I... I feared the worst.
Elice: I was prepared for the worst, if that was what it took to ensure your safety. But they did not kill me. Gharnef spared my life.
Marth: Why would he spare you?
Elice: Marth, have you heard of the staff of Aum?
Marth: The staff that brings back the dead? It was lost to the world long ago, or so the legend goes.
Elice: Yes, but Gharnef found it... in the Resurrectory.
Marth: The Resurrectory? What was it doing in a temple in the middle of Dolhr?
Elice: I could not say. But that was why Gharnef kept me alive: he wished me to wield it. The staff of Aum’s power can only be channeled by women of royal blood. Marth, you are going to Dolhr, are you not?
Marth: Yes. I must settle things with Medeus.
Elice: Then take me to the Resurrectory along the way to claim the staff. Aum works but once, but I will use it to revive a lost comrade.@Opening 
Grust would harry the League no more. Marth led his forces on to Macedon. However, Macedon’s Dragoons were ready to waylay them at the border; countless reinforcements hovered within the fortresses, waiting to strike…Would Marth be able to lead the League safely through the gauntlet?

@Intro
Marth: Princess Minerva, we will soon reach the Macedonian border. Are you certain you wish to join the battle? If you’ve any reservations about fighting your own countrymen-
Minerva: If I did, Prince Marth, I would not have offered you my axe.
Marth: But surely-
Minerva: You have the wrong idea. Perhaps you think I wish to spare my brother and former vassals, forgive them for seeing things differently?
Marth: ...Don’t you?
Minerva: I would be lying if I said I did not wish it were that simple. But history needs to remember that when Macedon went astray, it was a Macedonian who set things right.
Marth: Even if it means your own brother may die?
Minerva: Since I was little, I followed in Michalis’s footsteps. Whatever books he read, I read; whenever he practiced the sword, I was close by, watching, learning... He was always a step ahead: my hero, something to aspire to. Even now, some part of me loves him. ...I love him enough to spare him death on some stranger’s sword, you see? Let him be punished by my hands.

@Boss
Orridyon: Rebels! You have strutted into the wrong kingdom this time!
Orridyon: Nngh! I am but a pebble... in Macedon's unshakeable foundation...

@End 
Gotoh: ...Prince Marth...
Marth: That voice! Lord Gotoh, is that you?
Gotoh: I see you have made it to Macedon. You will find me in a village north of the Macedon aerie, their castle. If you possess the Lightsphere and Starsphere, have them in hand when you visit me here. ...Ah, yes. I also have good news. Your sister Elice is unharmed.
Marth: What?! You are certain? Where is she now?
Gotoh: Thabes, city of illusion. Gharnef took her with him when he fled. I pray you rescue her soon.
Marth: I will!
Gotoh: But first, bring me the two orbs. Without Starlight’s mighty blast, Gharnef will only add your life to the list of things he has taken from you.@Opening
Marth and his knights took refuge in a forest near Altea's borders, lying low while they waiting for the right chance to escape the kingdom. Before long, the enemy grew less watchful: the time to slip away had come. Still, the prince could not quell the sadness in his heart for his sister Elice.

@Intro 
Malledus: Prince Marth. ...Sire? Sire! Are you listening?!
Marth: Huh? ...Oh. Malledus.
Malledus: Get ahold of yourself, Sire! I know how you grieve, but the Gra host that pursues us will not be interested. We must keep moving, and with all haste at that.
Marth: I...I'm sorry. These thoughts are hard to put aside.
Malledus: From here, we will cross out of Altea and begin our escape to Talys. I trust you are prepared?
Marth: Talys... I've heard the name. An island kingdom to the east, isn't it?
Malledus: That is correct. The king there was a good friend to your father- and perhaps more importantly, a true friend. It was Princess Elice's wish that you seek refuge in Talys should things ever go awry.
Marth: Me, but not her...
Malledus: I've arranged for a boat to take us from the northeast shore. But to get there, we'll first need to cut through a prison to the north. I managed to come by a key to the premises. Let me hand it over.

Malledus: Now, on the road, you may notice people who seem to be fighting for Gra against their own wishes. Before you resort to your blade, you should try talking to them first.

@Visit 
Young Man: Boy, I don’t envy you! The enemy horde is closing in on you faster’n a bolt of Thoron. You and your friends had better hightail it on outta here!
Old Man: Sometimes victory on a battlefield requires that someone you care about make a sacrifice. But parting with one comrade may be the only way to meet another. You need to accept your losses in life and move forward.

Woman: My word! Aren’t you–No, you cannot stay here! Run! Before their soldiers come back! Here, this is the bow my granddaughter always used. Take it, sire! Please, promise you’ll stay safe...

@Battle
Captain: Enemies south of the prison?
Soldier: Yes, sir. Not many of 'em, but the scouts say they're a tough bunch all the same. And guess who's with 'em...
Captain: ...You're saying the prince is coming this way?
Soldier: Yes, sir. How ought we proceed? The main force ‘as yet to arrive, and- to be honest, sir- we need 'em.
Captain: Bah! You're cowed too easily. We can win...if we set a trap.
Soldier: Er...a trap, sir?
Captain: The prince of Altea will be ours. Just do as I tell you, and we'll pluck this royal plum long before the main force can show up to steal all the glory. Heh...

Ruffian: You! Inside!
Gordin: Grrrmph...
Ruffian: Heh. I thought Altea was the great ‘ero Anri's kingdom! Didn't take more'n a couple of days to break you, now did it, Gaggles?
Gordin: Mmph! Arrumph!
Ruffian: What's the matter, Gaggles? Can't talk cause you're gagged, Gaggles? Ba ha ha! I'll letcha in on a little secret. Altea's little princeling is on ‘is way ‘ere right this moment.
Gordin: .....!
Ruffian: Ooh, but sad for you, you look awful dangerous in the uniform... MISTER GRA SOLDIER! Ha! Soon as the prince sees you, ‘e'll say, Yow! It's an enemy ambush!-And that'll be the end of you.
Gordin: Gugrrrmph!
Ruffian: Once the prince sticks you like a pig, we get to call him Marth the Tyrant, coz ‘e kills ‘is own countrymen.
Ruffian: Won't that be an ‘oot!
Gordin: Rrrmph.
Ruffian: So long, Gaggles! Better start praying to your ‘igher deity of choice! 

Jiol: Listen, men. Your target is the prince. Find the prince of Altea and bring me his head served on a shield!
Marth: Look there!
Malledus: No...Anri save us...Of all the places to be beset! Sire, that is Gra's main force- and they are accompanied by the knights of Grust's Sable Order. Our chances of routing them are slim, I'm afraid, and those of slipping away undetected afterward, all but nil...
Marth: Then we've no hope?
Malledus: I...I can think of one strategy. We could leave a decoy behind for when the enemy catches up.
Marth: A decoy?
Malledus: It's you they're after, sire. Were one of your men to stay behind disguised as you...Well, the enemy ought to take the bait. That would give you, and the others time to escape.
Malledus: One of your men must make for that fortress on the south highroad. He will act as a decoy by dressing as you and luring the enemy force away.
Marth: But Malledus, how will he find his way back to us?
Malledus: Sire...He may not. You must part with one of your comrades. There is no other way.
Marth: ...Well, I will find a way! You cannot expect me to agree to...to abandon one of our own to a death at the hands of the enemy. Surely there must be another way...
Malledus: Forgive me, sire...But this is our only chance. You know as well as I do that you must not die here today.

Malledus: No, sire! Get back here! One of your other men must take that position!

Enemy Soldier 1: Look! It's...it's Prince Marth!
Enemy Soldier 2: Oh yeah? Who's that, then? That bloke over there is dressed in the same clothes. Could be either of 'em.
Jiol: Simpletons! Use your heads! One of them ran; the other didn't. What does that tell you? Easy! The one who stayed behind is trying to buy time for the one who fled.
Enemy Solider: So, er...the one who took off is-
Jiol: The real prince, you idiot, yes! Hie, troops, after him! Put that craven whip to the sword!
Marth: Wait! Quickly, Malledus, we must head south and rescue him!
Malledus: No, sire. We have to press on.
Marth: Press on? (Insert name) might be dying back there!
Malledus: If he were, then why would you be so selfish as to let him die in vain? Honor him, by allowing his life and his choice to mean something!
Marth: ......
Marth: ...All right.
Marth: I will honor him. ...I will go.
Captain: The prince fled south? Bah! Seems the plum's fallen too far from our tree... No matter. Open the north door! We can still crush the Altean rabble he left behind...

Marth: Blast! That archer was on our side!
Captain: They killed the captive? Heh heh... What fools! Hie, let's give them the punishment fools deserve! Open the north door! Lure them out and strike them down!

Captain: All but the prince have been slain? Good. Open the north door! The little whelp is ours now!

Malledus: Sire, there is a village over yonder. Its residents may be willing to help. Why don't you try paying them a visit?

Draug: Prince Marth! Make haste, sire!
Marth: Draug, is that you? What are you doing here?
Norne: Draug, sir! The enemy has crossed the border from the west! They’ll be upon us soon!
Draug: Right, we’re on our way. Sire, this is Norne. She heard wind of our struggles and wishes to fight for Altea.
Norne: Prince Marth, ’tis an honor. By your leave, though, I’ll be savin' the curtsy-bobbin' for later. Quickly, sire!

Jiol: This is...the wrong prince? No! You dare make a fool of me? Kill him! Make this faux prince SUFFER!

@Recruit-Battle
Gordin: May I suffer for my sins...

@Recruit-Talk
%Marth,Gordin
Marth: Yow! It's an enemy ambush!
Gordin: Rrrgmph mrph!
Marth: Huh? You've been gagged? Here, I'll get that... Wait, I know you! You're one of our archers, er...
Gordin: Gordin, sire! My name is Gordin. The enemy captured me and left me in this mortifying state.
Marth: I see. Well, I'm glad you're unharmed. But I'm afraid we cannot stay here a moment longer. Stay behind me and-
Gordin: I can fight, sire! If you have a bow I could use, I would be honored to fight at your side.

@Character-Falls
Jagen: Heh, these old bones are still good for something. Farewell, my prince. Live, and grow strong...

Cain: Glory to Altea, land of my birth! Farewell, sire! Fortune protect you...

Abel: Good... Altea's hope is restored. Farewell sire. Fortune protect you...

Frey: Count this knight honored to die in the service of his prince. Live, sire, and grow strong...

Gordin: I was dead anyway till you came, sir... If I'm to die again, at least let me die for you. Fortune protect you sire...

@End
And so Marth and his knights left Altea, heavy of heart and bleary of eye...

Jagen: Look, sire. See how Altea shrinks on the horizon...
Marth: ..aven...
Jagen: I beg your pardon?
Marth: I am a craven. Powerless to save my sister, to staunch my kingdom's wounds; to ease my people's fears...
Jagen: This...was your only recourse, sire. But surely, one day, you will be able to set things right...
Marth: "Surely"? Why do words of such conviction smack so much of uncertainty when spoken? Not surely, Jagen. Assuredly. Gra will pay for their acts. Today, though, allow me to wallow in this pain, to feel every awful twist of it. I never want to forget.
Jagen: Sire...
Marth: I will return, Altea! Your prince will return to you one day!@Opening
Long ago, Medeus, king of the dragonkin, conquered the continent of Archanea, beginning an age of fear and despair for all its people. That tyranny was broken, however, when an unlikely hero intervened. A young man hailing from the Altea region appeared with a divine blade in hand. He stood against the Shadow Dragon, and struck him down. For some time after, the land enjoyed an age of peace. However, after a century's passing, the Shadow Dragon returned. He forged an alliance with a fiendish sorcerer who sought to rule the world, and their combined might toppled kingdom upon unsuspecting kingdom.
Again, darkness threatened to engulf the continent. It fell upon the king of Altea, sole descendant of the dragon-slayer hero, to 'sally forth with the divine blade and fulfill his blood destiny.
His son, Prince Marth, remained at home with the boy's mother, his elder sister, and a garrison manned by Altea's neighbor and ally, Gra. Thus the boy applied himself to the ways of both pen and sword, until one day...
But he was betrayed by his closest ally, Gra- and both king and kingdom fell. Altea's prince, Marth, escaped the castle and found refuge on the isle of Talys, but at a dear cost: his sister stayed behind to buy his freedom."

@Intro
Soldier: Prince Marth... Are you awake? Beggin' your pardon, sire, but the princess has asked to see you.
Marth: Elice? Is she all right?"
Soldier: She seemed to be, sire, but her words implied a certain urgency. She bade you dress quickly and wait by the throne.
Marth: ...Has something happened?
Soldier: It's our forces off in Gra, sire. There seems to 'ave been some sort of incident, but... Well, I'm not privy to the specifics.
Marth: I see... Thank you. I'll be there shortly.
Marth: My sister said she would meet me by the throne.
Marth: An incident in Gra... If Elice had news of our father, I pray it's good news...

@Battle
Enemy Soldier: O'er there, that's him! Prince Marth!
Marth: Wha- Who are you?!
Enemy Soldier: We're soldiers of Gra, li'l prince. And if you know what's good for you, you'll surrender to us without makin' any trouble.
Marth: Surrender? But that's ridiculous... Why would I surrender to the army of an allied kingdom?
Enemy Soldier: "Meh heh heh... They don't tell you much, do they? No matter." You'll ‘ave the full story soon enough. Now...lay down your sword.
Marth: I will not. I am the prince of Altea. I will not yield to you or any other nation, here on my own land, under my own castle roof!
Enemy Soldier: Heh, you talk big, brat. Have it your way. If you won't lay down your sword, then we'll just have to take your life instead!
Enemy Soldier: What? He is fighting back? I'll show him!
Marth: No! The throne... I have to get rid of him before my sister arrives!

@End
Elice: Marth, are you all right?
Marth: Sister, what is happening?
Elice: Steady yourself, Marth. I have grave news. Our father was defeated by the Dolhr-Grust allied forces.
Marth: What? No...
Elice: It was Gra. Our own ally betrayed us and struck Father's army from the rear. I am... I am not sure if he is safe. The scouts who returned gave conflicting reports...
Marth: Father...It can't be...
Elice: As we speak, soldiers sent by Gra are trying to take the castle. Mother and I were separated during the escape. I do not know where she is.
Marth: .....
Elice: Marth, I need you to listen to me. You must flee the castle. Go on without me.
Marth: What?
Elice: We've not many soldiers left...This is hard to bear, I know, but the castle is lost. We must face that. I will look for Mother and join you as soon as I can. You find Jagen and get away from here- far away. Understand?
Marth: ...All right. But promise you won't be long.
Elice: "Goodbye, Marth. May you live long...@Opening 
Grust had caught the League unawares, forcing them to flee to Pyrathi. But the kingdom of Pyrathi seldom made contact with the outside world, and their king, Mannu, was wroth when he heard of the League's unexpected visit. There were whispers Mannu was a dragonkin- rumors soon to be proved true.

@Intro 
Mannu: Interlopers! Barbarous filth! They dare dig their heels and hooves into this hallowed ground? I will kill them for this- one by one- then turn the crimson grass beneath them into their pyre!

@Visit 
Teenage Boy: Your best chance of stopping a Manakete lies in what they call a wyrmslayer. It’s a type of sword, and I hear one is enshrined in the eastern palace.

@Recruit-Visit
Jeorge: Prince Marth, I am Jeorge, an Archanean sniper. I fought to defend our palace from Dolhr but the enemy’s strength was too great. We lost, and I was captured. Thankfully, they’re not half as bright as they are strong, and I managed to slip away when they were not looking. I heard you were on your way to Pyrathi, and that Princess Nyna was with you, so I came here to offer my help. Let me fight with you to save my land, and I will use this silver bow to show you marksmanship unlike any you’ve ever seen.

@Boss
Mannu: Foolhardy humans, defying a Manakete king! Tremble now, and feel the last quickening of your heart!

Mannu: What...? Slain, by this fangless coward and his minions?

@End 
Catria: Prince Marth. I am Catria, of the Whitewinged Order of Macedon. I have come with a request from our mistress, the princess Minerva. She is planning to lead us against Dolhr in rebellion; however, her hands are tied so long as the enemy holds her younger sister, the princess Maria, captive. Will you rescue Princess Maria from their clutches, that my Whitewing sisters and I might join in your fight?@Opening 
Trace a line around the continent’s north-eastern plains, and you have Aurelis. This kingdom alone had somehow resisted Dolhr’s attempts to conquer it, but only by some miracle. By the time Marth arrived in Aurelis, much of its territory had already been carved up by Dolhr’s ally Macedon. Still, the king’s younger brother, Hardin, refused to give up without a fight. The people called him Coyote, and he intended to live up to the name. Since its founding, Aurelis and the holy kingdom of Archanea shared close ties and months ago Princess Nyna of Archanea had come to Hardin’s aid. By his side, she had called on the people to fight- but few remained to answer. Macedon’s finest soldiers were closing in. Nyna knew they were out of time…

@Intro 
Hardin: Princess Nyna, I’ve spotted them! The Altean army is on the far side of the river.
Nyna: They’re here? At last! Prince Marth has come for us!
Hardin: So it seems. Now, what say you we turn this battle around? I’m going to take my men east to join our might with Marth’s. Together we will retake the castle. Stay here, my lady, and wait for the good news.

@Visit
Old man: A castle like ours must be chock full o’ royal treasure! Ah, but only a thief could get inside chests locked that tight…

Old Woman: The shops in Port Warren feature wares both rare and beautiful. Be thrifty with your gold now if you’ve any plans to venture that way later! Also keep in mind that shops keep only a limited stock of some items; once they’re sold out, you can’t buy any more.

Young man: Word has it that the enemy is mustering its forces in the fortresses nearby. You’d better hurry and send units to bar their exits.

Young man: Well g’day, there, son! …Why the wide-eyed stare? Ain’cha never seen a country village before? You know, speakin’ o’ rare sights, I once went to Pyrathi, where I saw me a real live Manakete! Cripes, let me tell you what a shock THAT was! In a blink, this regular old feller turned into an enormous dragon! I mean, I ain’t stupid. I’d heard of the dragonkin before. I’d just always assumed Manaketes looked somethin’ like parakeets. Sheesh… …What? Oh, this? I picked this stone up while I was there. Dunno what it is, but how often do you spy a glowin’ red rock, ya know what I’m sayin’ But honestly, it’s been kinda creepin’ me out lately. You want it? Go on ‘n’ take it. Sheesh…

@Recruit-Talk 
%Merric,Wendell
Merric: Oh… Master Wendell! Teacher!
Wendell: Well, hello, Merric! What a surprise! Good to see you haven’s blown yourself up yet.
Merric: Not yet, sir. But I did find Prince Marth, just like I said I would. I’ve joined the Altean army in the fight against Dolhr. …Why are you here, Teacher?
Wendell: Hmm… It’s Khadein, lad. The land is not as you remember it. That fiend Gharnef seized power, and now he’s draped the city in darkness. I fear Khadein is doomed… I could not stay and serve him. So, I snuck out alone.
Merric: Very brave of you, sir. Hmm… Why don’t you join us, then? If Gharnef is helping Dolhr, then he’s a bitter enemy of ours as much as he is to yours and Khadein’s. We couldn’t possibly leave the city in his clutches. And I’m sure the prince would be pleased as pie to have magic as robust as yours in his arsenal.
Wendell: Hmm, you do know how to argue a point. I’ve no taste for war, but war is what I’ve been served. Come, Merric. We’ll fight together. Tell your prince of Altea that Wendell is at his service.

%Marth,Wendell
Wendell: Prince Marth, I am Wendell, a pontifex of Khadein, city of magic. Our pleas for peace have failed, and Khadein has been taken over by one of the other pontifices. His name is Gharnef, and he and the many mages who swear allegiance to him have allied themselves with Dolhr. Prince Marth, I ask you now: please lend me your help in thwarting his vile ambitions.

@Battle-Talk 
%Marth,Wendell
Wendell: Prince Marth, I am Wendell, a pontifex of Khadein, City of Magic. Our pleas for peace have failed, and Khadein has been taken over by one of the other pontifices. His name is Gharnef, and he and the many mages who swear allegiance to him have allied themselves with Dolhr. Prince Marth, I ask you now: please lend me your help in thwarting his vile ambitions.

%Marth,Hardin
Marth: Lord Hardin, I am Marth of Altea. I’ve come to offer what help I can.
Hardin: And I very gratefully accept it. Stories of your exploits travel fast, young prince. I feel as though I’ve gained a thousand allies in one.
Marth: I’ve heard a few stories of you as well, Coyote. It will be an honor to fight alongside such a courageous man.
Hardin: I’ve left Princess Nyna someplace safe for now. We need to decide who will command here. I was hoping it would be you.
Marth: Me? But, Sir Hardin, you are far more qualified-
Hardin: Tsk, Princess Nyna would not be pleased to hear us nitpicking over who will be listed in the history books. Take command, so we can oust this Macedonian scum and be done with it.
Marth: You are sure?
Hardin: Make no mistake. Lord Marth. I consider myself an exceptionally good judge of character. If I thought you acted out of selfishness or ambition, I would not extend the offer I have. You have my trust.
Marth: Lord Hardin, thank you. That is an honor. If you don’t mind me saying so… I feel as though I’ve made a good friend. We share the same ideals, I think.
Hardin: That we do. May our friendship be a long one.

@Boss 
Merach: Princess Minerva bade me guard this castle in her absence. You shall not take it so long as I stand!

Merach: Heh… You think you’ve won, wretch? Far from it…

@End 
Aurelis King: Prince Marth, your arrival could not have been better timed. Please accept our gratitude. Princess Nyna of Archanea is en route from the fortress. I am sure she will wish to meet you. The battle is not won yet, though: many of the enemy continue to hold out within the castle’s halls. Stay wary.@Opening
When journeying in from the borderlands, one particular peril would spring to mind: the Samsooth Mountains, whose gashing peaks rose up and divided the peninsula. Since before anyone could remember, the mountains had belonged to bandits, blights on the land whose acts of plunder, kidnapping, and arson knew no bounds. Out of fear, their victims gave these peaks another name: the Ghoul’s Teeth; while the bandits who ruled atop the Teeth’s craggy crowns took a name as well: the Samsooth Sires, or Soothsires...

@Intro
Julian: Hey, c’mon, Lena, shake a leg! We need to get out of the Teeth, and we need to do it yesterday! Rumor has it the knights of Altea are at the foot of the mountain. We won’t get a better chance. It’s just a little bit farther. Stick with me.
Lena: Julian, I’m sorry...but I left my Mend staff back there. It’s very precious to me...You go on ahead...Save yourself! Here, I could use this Warp staff to send you someplace safe--
Julian: Uh-uh, honey. No can do. I didn’t betray my boys back there so you could zap me on out of here alone. Forget the staff; I’ll come back later and get it for you myself. All right? Right now though, I need you to RUN. Tick-tack, now move that frock!
Navarre: .....

@Visit
Young Man: Take care around mercenaries. They’re quite skillful; if you’re unlucky, they may drop you at stroke.

Teenage Boy: Units with high skill deal more frequent critical hits. Units with high speed have an easier time avoiding enemy attack.

Old Woman: Hunters are stronger than archers, but they also have weaker defenses. Keep them out of close-range combat.

Old Man: Oh, ho ho! Don’t you look young and full of life! Such a warm smile here deserves a nice reward. Here, take this axe—this EVIL abomination of an axe! Beware! Its blade drinks blood and devours flesh. I’d hate to see you come to any harm!”

@Recruit-Battle
Navarre: Will it be tears or blood you weep first?

Navarre: Fools...

@Recruit-Talk
%Caeda,Navarre
Caeda: Navarre! Since when does a swordsman of your caliber fall in with thieves and cutthroats?
Navarre: What? Who are you? Fly away, girl, before someone decides to swat you.
Caeda: Please, Navarre. Why fight for nothing when you can fight for something? Leave this rabble. Lend your sword to our cause. Or, if you will not, then turn it on me now instead.
Navarre: ...Nay, I’ll turn no blade of mine on a women. If you’re willing to pay for my services with your life, then consider yourself the high bidder. My sword is yours.

@Battle-Talk 
%Julian,Marth
Julian: Stop! Whoa! I’m...I’m not your enemy!
Marth: Huh?
Julian: I’m Julian! One of the bad guys! A Soothsire. Oh! Well, except I’m not anymore. See, now I’m a good guy! Lena gave me a reason to--well, let’s just say I’ve had a change of heart.
Marth: ...
Julian: Hm, not explainin’ myself very well, am I? OK OK, what I’m trying to say is--
Marth: Yes. You can come with us.
Julian: Oh... Well... well, good.
Marth: I’m inclined to trust you. If you’ve truly had a change of heart, you deserve the chance to prove it. Show me you’re ready to help people, and then I’ll know I’ve picked a man of character.
Julian: Wow. That’s.... Thanks! I couldn’t ask for a better deal!

%Marth,Lena
Marth: Good day, Sister. Are you all right?
Lena: Yes... Thank you.
Marth: These mountains are dangerous. My forces will draw the enemy away; use that time to escape.
Lena: No, I wish to help.
Marth: But... you... What?
Lena: Please, sire. I am a cleric. I cannot bear to watch others come to harm when I have the power to help.
Marth: Well... all right... But I don’t wish to see you come to harm, either.
Lena: I will be careful. Thank you, sire.

%Marth,Navarre
Navarre: ......
Marth: Um, aren’t you--
Navarre: Navarre.
Marth: The great swordsman they speak of... Will you fight with us, then?
Navarre: You need only name your target.

@Boss
Reynard: Har. You must really want to die, comin’ into the Soothsires’ palace unbidden!

Reynard: Arrgh... One day it’ll be you!

@End 
Malledus: Sire! Would you look at this! Those rogues left 15,000 gold here when they fled! This money will buy plenty of new equipment for your army. Tomorrow is the day, sire, when we finally arrive in Aurelis. Be sure to rest up tonight.@Opening 
It was General Ordwin, one of the Three Heroes of the War of Liberation, who put Grust on the map. His peerless knights tamed their neighbors the barbarians in the kingdom’s infancy, securing its place as one of the greatest of the Seven Kingdoms. However, the current king, Ludwik, was weak-willed and easily cowed: Dolhr had little trouble forcing him into an alliance. Now he had taken ill, even as Grust suffered its string of defeats at the hand of the League. The once mighty kingdom was poised to fall...

@Intro
Marth: Nyna, we’ll soon be launching the attack. If you have something to tell me... now is the time to do it.
Nyna: All right, Marth. As you wish. When the Dolhr-Grust allied forces seized control of Archanea, the entire royal family was killed, save me. I was given into Grust’s custody- the custody of the Sable Order, to be more specific. I am told Dolhr wished for my execution- and with it the end of the holy lineage of House Archanea- and Grust was willing to comply.
Marth: But you are not dead.
Nyna: That is right. I was not put to the sword. The Sable Order’s captain came to my defense. His name... was Camus.
Marth: ....!
Nyna: Camus protected me, knowing he risked incurring the wrath of the Shadow Dragon. He was the one who eventually arranged for my escape to Aurelis.
Marth: ...I had no idea. That certainly explains Dolhr’s displeasure with him.
Nyna: I hated him, too, at first. But in time, I found my hatred tempered by the compassion he showed me, my feelings... changed. And now, all I wish is to see him again... But not if it means you and he must fight.
Marth: Nyna... Do you... I cannot make any promises. But I will do what I can. I hope you can accept that.
Nyna: Thank you, Marth. I could not ask for more.

@Visit 
Old Man: Ah, Prince Marth! Welcome, welcome. Tell me, have you seen my granddaughter Lena? Is she well? If she happens to you, would you see she gets this Hammerne staff? It’s a staff of repairing passed down through our family. I’m certain she’ll make good use of it. Of course, not all items can be repaired; be sure to caution her about that.

@Battle 
Marth: General Camus! Can you hear me? It is I, Marth of Altea! I must speak with you! Please, show yourself!
Camus: Prince Marth. I am Camus of Grust.
Marth: General, I have no wish to fight you. You know this battle is pointless; surely you must!
Camus: So long as Grust continues to support Dolhr’s ambitions, it does not matter what I know or think. I am a knight; I have a duty to fight for my motherland’s glory till the very end.
Marth: But surely-
Camus: Prince Marth, there is nothing you can do or say. I am party to your father’s murder. Are you a man or not? Draw your sword.
Nyna: Stop! Camus!
Camus: Princess Nyna...
Marth: Nyna, what are you doing here?! This is the middle of the battlefield!
Nyna: I know, I know... But please, Camus, listen to me... Camus, you gave me back my life. And Marth, he gave me back my kingdom. I do not wish to see that the two of you fight. It is... it is unbearable. Please, Camus, fight with us. We need your strength. ...I need it.
Camus: I am sorry, Princess.
Nyna: What? But, Camus!
Camus: Were my heart my master, I would do exactly as you say. But what sort of knight abandons his kingdom- his king!- now, when they need him the most? Would you have me toss away the life I have built as if it meant nothing at all?
Nyna: No, Camus, I... I don’t know...
Camus: I have lived as a knight, and I intend to die as one. There are no other roads left for me to walk. Farewell, my princess. I shall never forget our days together at the palace, few though they were. I pray you meet someone who can bring joy back into your life.

@Recruit-Battle 
Lorenz: No victory here can give Grust back her glory.

Lorenz: This, too, must be fate.

@Recruit-Talk 
%Caeda,Lorenz
Caeda: General Lorenz! My name is Caeda. I hail from Talys. My father has told me quite a bit about you.
Lorenz: Princess Caeda! My, look what a lovely young woman you’ve grown into. Your father was a good friend to me, many years ago.
Caeda: General, I heard you opposed Grust forming an alliance with Dolhr. Why didn’t you try to stop it?
Lorenz: You think I did not try, Princess? Our king is meek; in the end, Dolhr proved better at cowing him than I did.
Caeda: But sir, surely you know that Dolhr intends to use Manaketes to conquer humankind! You must act now- for Grust’s sake, if not the world’s! Join us, General Lorenz. We can put an end to this battle right now.
Lorenz: Hmm...What you say makes sense enough, but I serve Grust. I cannot simply betray my country.
Caeda: Ah, but what makes a country?
Lorenz: Pardon?
Caeda: Is it one man- your king? Or is it the countless innocent people who make their home here?
Lorenz: Well, that’s- Hmm...
Caeda: My father has a saying: “A kingless country is a country still; but a king without subjects rules naught but hills.” If you disobey your king to ensure his subjects’ safety, how is that a betrayal? You are protecting his reign.
Lorenz: Protecting his reign? ...Aha ha ha, ha ha! Ahh, that mad logic! I feel as though I’ve shed twenty years and I’m talking to your father again. You win, Princess. I yield! I will join you, in the interests of king and country. Har!

%Marth,Lorenz 
Marth: General Lorenz, hold!
Lorenz: What? You are Marth, the Altean prince...
Marth: Yes, sir. The king of Talys told me much about you. He said you opposed Grust forming an alliance with Dolhr, right from the very start.
Lorenz: That’s right.
Marth: Then fight with us! With your help, we can defeat Dolhr!
Lorenz: Forgive me, Prince Marth, but am I to just abandon my country, then?
Marth: ...
Lorenz: I know yours is the just cause. Still, I wish to remain a Grustian general, right to the end. I am fighting here because that is the way for me to honor my kingdom.
Marth: Forgive me, General, but... is it, really?
Lorenz: Pardon?
Marth: Since you are a Grustian General, then surely you fight for Grust’s future first and foremost. But tell me…from where you are standing now, do you see any future for your country?
Lorenz: ...I shall have to learn to mask my misgivings better, if you can pluck them from my heart so easily. You are quite correct. If I care what becomes of Grust, then I cannot continue to stand by Dolhr. So, I will stand by you instead, Prince- and hope the future is a bit easier to spot from there.

@Battle-Talk 
%Marth,Lorenz 
Lorenz: Prince Marth? I am General Lorenz of Grust. I have decided to join you, in the interest of my fellow Grustians.
Marth: I am honored, General. Thank you. Caeda tells me you and her father were close.
Lorenz: Yes. How the princess has grown, though! Sharp as a tack, that one. Such a change from when she was- Now what am I saying? Caeda has always been clever. Even as a wee girl she knew how to wrap her elders about her little finger.
Marth: You knew Caeda when she was little?
Lorenz: Oh, yes. The mischief she got into! Well, those are stories for another day. First, we’ve a battle to finish!
Marth: So we do, sir!

@Boss 
Camus: With this lance, Gradivus, I am all but invincible. A pity you had to waste your life.

Camus: Nyna... Fare... Well...

@End 
Marth: Forgive me, Nyna. I was unable to reunite you with your general.
Nyna: No, Marth, I... I should not have made such a selfish request. I am sorry, so terribly sorry...
Marth: ....
Nyna: The worst part, Marth... the worst part is, I knew it would come to this. Ever since I gave you the emblem, I just knew... Have you heard the story of Artemis’s Curse?
Marth: No...
Nyna: The last time the Fire Emblem changed hands to save House Archanea, it was not without cost. There was a princess named Artemis who loved your ancestor, Anri, with all her heart. He loved her as well- but when Medeus appeared, the two were parted forever. She cursed the Fire Emblem- called it the end of war, but also the end of love. Now the emblem has changed hands again, and I am the one who is cursed...

Marth: Nyna...
Nyna: Look at me, so quick to fall apart... You lost loved ones in Altea and took it so bravely; but I cannot be so brave... Please... leave me for a moment. This is too much to bear. I need to... to confront my feelings...
Marth: ...Say no more, Nyna... Princess. I will step out. Send for me if you need anything.
Nyna: Thank you, Marth...
Nyna: Ahh...! Camus, Camus... Ahh... no... Oh, why...

Marth: Nyna- Princess.
Nyna: I am told Camus has not been found. Perhaps he still lives. I know how selfish it is to wish it... But if he cannot be with me, then I must cling to the hope his life has not been cut short. It is all I have left.@Opening 
The Archanean heroes hurried to Altea, but they would not go unchallenged. Waiting for them at Fort Menedy were Grust's artillery regiment, the dreaded “Wooden Cavalry”. Missiles crashed down, rocking the earth as the enemy ballistae rumbled forward. Had Marth and the League any hope of triumphing over such firepower?

@Intro 
Nyna: Grust's artillery...Our opponent is mighty.
Marth: Nonetheless we must face them head-on; they stand between us and Altea.
Nyna: That hunger for danger worries me, Marth. Humanity's hopes rest on your shoulders. I would sooner not see them crushed.
Marth: Which? Humanity's hopes, or my shoulders? ...Have a little faith, Nyna. The enemy ballisticians can strike from afar, but they're powerless up close. All we need to do is move in and silence them before they do too much damage. Watch!

@Visit
Young Man: Ballisticians are really only vulnerable to one type of weapon: the thunderbolt. Fresh out of thunderbolts? Then you'll just have to dart in and hit ‘em at close range.
Young Woman: We and our countrymen wanted to fight for Archanea, you know. Not just us, neither. They say some of Grust's soldiers would sooner rally under Archanea's banner than Dolhr's. But General Camus conquered us ‘fore we could act, and Grust has had us under their thumb ever since. Here's hopin' you win this battle quick. We like bein' free, don't you know.

@Recruit-Visit
Beck: Prince Marth, I presume? The name's Beck. I fought in the battle at Castle Deil. After my shameful defeat there, see, I took refuge in this village. And when I heard your army was marchin' this way, I readied my ballista, hopin' for another taste of battle. So how 'bout it, princey? Take me along! I'm packin' thunderbolts, see? The enemy ballisticians'll never know what hit 'em!

@Recruit-Talk 
%Midia,Astram 
Midia: Hello, my lover.
Astram: Midia...? Midia, my sweet! Can it really be you? I feared you were dead.
Midia: Oh, Astram! How could you not have heard? Archanea is free! The Altean army came, and liberated the palace along with all the hostages within! Now we fight as one. Come with us, Astram! You needn't dance to Dolhr's fiddle any longer.
Astram: I've a mind to break their fiddle, for all the evils they have wrought.
Midia: Now you can. We can take them together.
Astram: That we can. ...Midia. I am sorry I left you alone. I will not make that mistake again.
Midia: No, you certainly won't. Now that I have you back...you'll find me exceedingly reluctant to let you go.
Astram: Ooh... Yes, I can see that! Just take care you don't crush me instead of Dolhr!

@Battle-Talk 
%Astram,Marth 
Astram: You are Prince Marth?
Marth: Correct, Sir Astram.
Astram: ...Forgive my lack of courtesy, but you and I need to be clear on a certain point.
Marth: Oh?
Astram: While I have decided to lend you my sword, my allegiance lies with Princess Nyna-not you, my lord. I will follow your orders, but should I learn you have been false to her, or that you are manipulating her... Heads will roll.
Marth: Well, Sir Astram...in the interest of keeping my head atop my shoulders, let me suggest this: Fight with me. Watch me, and then judge for yourself whether I am worthy of your skill and of your help.
Astram: ...... Hmm, very well. Your orders, then, Lord Marth.

@Boss 
Grigas: Hmph! Care to see what steel the Wooden Cavalry is really made of?

Grigas: Nngh... So, the prince can fight... But... your victories are numbered... General Camus and his Sable Order will be upon you rabble very... soon... and you will die... on the lance... of the greatest warrior... alive...

@End 
Nyna: Spectacularly done, Marth. ...Does something ail you? I thought you would be happier.
Marth: Today, there was this commoner... She mentioned Grust was divided about the war. Some of its people wanted to fight with Altea, she said...Ever since I lost my father and kingdom, I've held nothing but hate in my heart for Gra and Grust...but not once did I give any thought to what must have been going on in their heads.
Nyna: And now you find your hate for them has been lessened?
Marth: No... the hate remains. I will never forget the pain they inflicted upon me, the rage I felt. Yet now, at least, I can tell you it's not just hate...Not anymore.
Nyna: Not all evils are wrought of evil purposes. Perhaps this sounds naive, but...A true leader needs to look at his opponent and see more than just an enemy.
Marth: ....@Opening
Thus Prince Marth escaped Altea Castle with Sir Jagen and company at his side. However, this success would mean little to him once he learned the cost. The boy's woes were just beginning.

@Intro
Marth: Cain, how are your wounds? You should rest.
Cain: These scratches? It's my pride you're wounding sire. ...Anyway, we must talk. There's a reason I've returned. ...Sire, I am...I am to deliver to you His Majesty's last words.
Marth: Last words? You don't mean...Father...
Cain: My condolences, sire. The king died valiantly on the fields of Gra. The traitors took from him the divine blade Falchion and gave no quarter to those of our soldiers who remained...
Marth: I...I see...So they're all dead. Father, too...
Cain: His last words were as follows: Tell my son that I leave the future of Altea and our continent in his hands. He must rise now where I have fallen. As Falchion's rightful heir, he has been born into greatness... Now...he must be great.
Marth: ...Father. I will try...
Cain: ...Sire, I...I cannot bear this! Failing to protect His Majesty...then leaving my brothers to die, slinking away like some coward...This indignity is too much to bear! One day I will repay them in kind. I will avenge the fallen...I swear it!
Marth: Cain, you speak for us both. When that day comes, we will punish them together: Gra, Dolhr...all of them!
Jagen: Sire! We ought to pay a visit to these homes outside the castle.
Jagen: Your countrymen love you; perhaps they have knowledge that may serve us.

@Visit
Old Man: Just ‘cause you see an enemy over yonder doesn't mean you should go runnin' up to him like a fool! Lure one out, then take ‘im down! Then go out and lure the next. That’s how we did it when I was a lad!

Young Man: Sir Jagen is a paladin: the champion of Altea! I’ve never met him, but I hear he’s strong as an ox despite his age. Still, you can’t have a champion like him do everything; that’s not fair to all your would-be future champions! Let our other units fight and gain experience, or you may find yourself in a real fix down the line.

Old Woman: If you get hurt, rest a spell at a fort. A short stay there, and you’ll be feeling hale as ever.

Young Man: Javelins and Hand Axes are versatile weapons that let you attack both up close and from a short distance away.

Old Man: Weapons aren’t indestructible, you know! When a weapon’s durability reaches 0, that’s it: no more weapon. So be sure to keep an eye on those numbers.

@Battle
Jagen: Look sire. Not all of Gra's might harries the castle. They've left soldiers here outside.
Marth: Elice will have no plans to escape... Let's seize that fort across the water. Perhaps we can squash enemy reinforcement at the source.

Marth: Mages...That will complicate things. They don't need to get as close to do us harm. We'll need to approach carefully.

@End 
Marth: There. That ought to do for the enemy soldiers around here. Malledus! Why arent you with my sister? Did you leave her someplace safe?
Malledus: ...Princess Elice will not be joining us. She has elected to stay at the castle.
Malledus: Hold, sire! Where are you going?
Marth: Where do you think!
Malledus: Stop! Sire, consider for a moment why the princess would go as far as to lie to you to ensure your escape. Your sister knows that you are the future of Altea- nay, the whole land!
Marth: .....!
Marth: I'm...our future...
Malledus: Sire... You must live. Drink deeply now of these injustices; sup on these slights they serve. Remember them! One day you will lead us back here to avenge the fallen and reclaim Altea in their names!
Marth: ...Then it seems my life is no longer mine to hazard.
Malledus: In your veins flows the blood of a hero- the blood of Anri. You are a son of House Archanea, and sole heir to Falchion- our only hope of defeating Medeus, Emperor of Dolhr. Sire, were't in my power, I would have you choose you own path...but I'm afraid your path has chosen you.
Marth: ......

@Flashback
Cain: His last words were as follows: Tell my son that I leave the future of Altea and our continent in his hands. He must rise now where I have fallen. As Falchion's rightful heir, he has been born into greatness... Now...he must be great.

@Intro 
Frey: Sire!
Marth: ...Frey! Abel! You're alive!
Abel: Yes, sire. Princess Elice bade us protect you. Sir Malledus stayed behind to accompany her.
Frey: Sire, we must be quick. Sir Jagen awaits us at the gates.
Abel: Blast! This will not do. How did Gra's soldiers ever make it this far?
Marth: Jagen and the others will be caught like mice...We need to seize the gates and secure the area, immediately.

@Battle
Enemy Soldier: Now who's that who thinks they can sneak up on us? Ho ho... What's this? I spy the Altean prince. Oi, listen up, you lot! Bag the prince! Dead or alive, he'll fetch us as sweet a reward as the mind can conjure.
Marth: Hmm, they have archers... We need to take care they don't pick us off from afar.

@End 
Jagen: Sire, it gladdens me to see you in one piece. It's not safe for you here; we must be away at once!
Cain: Prince Marth! Where are you? Answer me, sire!
Marth: Cain? ...That's Cain!
Marth: Cain, you're supposed to be in Gra! Why have you returned without- Yow! Those wounds...!
Cain: Sire, it's really you...I feared the worst. That his message would go undeliv...Agh...
Marth: In that state, I don't know how you even stayed ahorse. Those gashes must be treated at once-
Jagen: No, sire. Not until we've escaped.
Marth: ...Cain, I trust you can put off bleeding to death for just a while longer?
Cain: Of course, sir... I aim to please...

Malledus: Princess Elice! The enemy is nearly upon us! Gather your things, quickly!
Elice: No, Malledus. I am staying here.
Malledus: S-staying here?! What madness is this?
Elice: Too many people have died to keep Altea and its castle safe. I cannot abandon what so many lives have brought. With Father and Mother unaccounted for, I am the natural choice to remain with Altea's people. And besides, by staying, I can buy time for the rest of you to escape.
Malledus: Nonsense. Just gather your things, and-
Elice: Malledus. I am not suggesting. I am commanding. If something befalls Father, Marth will become the last person in the entire world worthy of wielding the Falchion. I want you to guide him, Malledus- even when the rest of us no longer can.
Malledus: Princess...I will try my best.
Elice: There's not much time. Go, Malledus. ...Go!@Opening 
Dolhr... Land of the Manaketes. Before Medeus, the dragonkin had few dealings with the human realm, but when the Shadow Dragon came, everything changed. He sunk all Archanea into a cycle of war, in which heroes rose and heroes fell- always claiming his cause was just and the humans' deaths deserved. But now Medeus’s empire was crumbling... He was nearing the end of his reign... even as Marth was nearing the end of his long quest.

@Intro 
Malledus: There, sire. Up on the mountains to the south, you can see Dolhr Keep.
Marth: And inside is Medeus, king of the earth dragons- the one they call the Shadow Dragon. ...Why doesn’t he leave the keep and face us?
Malledus: I recall Lord Gotoh saying his return is not yet complete; only within the keep’s walls can he maintain dragon form.
Marth: Really...? Then we have the advantage...
Marth: To Dolhr Keep, then! Let us put a stop to this war!

@Visit
Old man: Nestled in the mountains far to the southeast is a holy temple known as the Resurrectory. Use the staff of Aum there, and they say you can call a departed friend back from beyond the river of death.

@Battle-Talk 
%Merric,Elise
Merric: Princess Elice! You're safe!
Elice: Oh, my! Merric, is that you? I haven't seen you in ages... So you've been fighting with the League? Thank you for keeping Marth safe.
Merric: Well, I did learn a spell or two in Khadein. Here, Princess. Get behind me. I'll face the enemy for us both.
Elice: You'll... face the...? Aha ha, oh, Merric!
Merric: Wh..what's so funny, Princess? I was quite serious, I'll have you know!
Elice: Ha ha, forgive me, Merric. It's just, I remembered you when you were little... You were always a bit delicate. Oftentimes I had to nurse you back to health. Remember?
Merric: But that was– I couldn't– Yes.
Elice: And look at you now. Such a brave, strong man! A far cry from the old Merric. But you don't have to pretend. I know you're far too sweet to mow down hordes of enemies. And... I think I prefer it that way.
Merric: You... you do?

@Boss 
Xemcel: This land, all of it- it belonged to us! Then you humans took it...defiled it!

Xemcel: Rrgh... Emperor... Medeus... Forgive your servant's weakness...

@End 
Enemy Soldier: Emperor! The enemy has broken through the gates!
Medeus: That impudent boy... Have the guards take their positions. The keep must be defended.
Enemy Soldier: At once!
Medeus: Hmph, you’ll find an earth dragon like me harder to tame than Gharnef, brat. Come and face me. I’ll tear the ground asunder and send you straight down to hell!

????: Marth... Can you hear me?
Marth: Lord Gotoh?
Gotoh: I know you mean to challenge Medeus. But you and your companions haven’t the power to win.
Marth: What? Why not? Because I failed to retrieve Falchion?
Gotoh: You also failed to save the divine-dragon girl.
Marth: I... did not mean for anything to happen to her-
Gotoh: You can put your heart at ease. Tiki is not dead. She has merely returned to her slumber. Still, without her powers... We must take other steps. ...Select a handful of your best warriors. I must send you into an unseen dimension.
Marth: An... unseen dimension, my lord?
Gotoh: A place outside the confines of our world. There you will find a tower; and once in the tower, you must pass its Keepers’ test. If your strength and your need are great enough, the tower’s master will answer... and then, perhaps, your fortunes will be changed for the better.@Opening 
Gra's betrayal of Altea years earlier had come as a shock, of course, until that day they attacked Marth's kingdom in the name of Dolhr, Gra had been a trustworthy neighbor and ally. While the Altean army was out on an expedition, Gra struck from the rearm annihilating the Altean soldiers, killing Marth's father, King Cornelius and stealing Falchion, the blade of light. It was a crushing blow. Much time had passed since that sad day, and much had changed. Now it was Marth's turn to descend on Gra Bastion, and face King Jiol, the man who had robbed him of his father.

@Intro 
Enemy Soldier: King Jiol, they're ‘ere! The League is outside the Bastion!
Jiol: League? How dare you call them that! I see naught but a prince of ghosts and his pack of rebels.
Enemy Soldier: B-beggin' your pardon, sire, but everybody calls 'em the League now. Altea and Aurelis and Archanea...The League of A's, you might say!
Jiol: Shut up, you idiot! Hmmm...So the princeling has returned. And he leads all the might of Archanea, with the Fire Emblem in hand...Did you send to Dolhr for reinforcements like I asked?
Enemy Soldier: Of course, sire. Macedon's pegasus knights are on their way.
Jiol: Pegasus knights?! How am I supposed to stop the Lea- those REBELS with a handful of...of winged ponies! Send another messenger! Tell them we need Camus's Sable Order, or...or Michalis's Dragoons! Blast...I deserve the same protection as the rest of the Empire! Betraying Altean was Gharnef's idea! Let...let him fight the brat! Don't just stand there, DO something! I don't want to die!

@Visit 
Young man: At level 10, some units can change class- move up in the world, you might say! Cavaliers become paladins, mercenaries become ‘eroes, and, err- well, I forget the rest.

Young man: With a silver card, you can buy from shops at ‘alf price! Sounds like somethin' out of a dream, eh?

???: You must be Prince Marth of Altea. I have a favor to ask of you. This magic tome belongs to Bishop Boah of Archanea. General Volzhin of Dolhr has been keeping it stashed away, but it...found its way into my hands, you might say. I would appreciate greatly if you could return it to the good bishop in my stead. One other thing... Please take care of Princess Nyna. I am counting on you to keep her safe. ...I must go now. But our paths will cross again; you can be certain of that.

@Recruit-Talk 
%Marth,Palla 
Palla: Greetings, Prince Marth. I am Palla, of the Whitewinged Order of Macedon. My younger sister and I parted ways with Macedon the moment we heard Princess Maria was free. Until now, we had fought for Dolhr against our will- but no longer. You have freed us to do what our hearts tell us is right. I wish to fight with my mistress, Princess Minerva. My lance is hers, and yours. Still, sire, I fear for my youngest sister, Est. She flew to Grust some time ago and has yet to return. If the three of us- Catria, Est, and I- are reunited, we can serve you all the better. I hope Est is safe.

%Marth,Catria 
Catria: Hail, Prince Marth! ‘Tis me, Catria. We meet again. My elder sister and I heard our mistress, Princess Minerva, had joined your ranks, so we absconded from Macedon to come and look for you here. I will fight my hardest for you, sire. You need only give the command.

@Boss 
Jiol: Grrr... Altean rabble! I should have killed you stragglers back when I had the chance!

Jiol: Thus falls... the mighty kingdom... of Gra...

@End 
Nyna: Well done, Marth. Altea is just a step away. Now you can take back your home.
Marth: Yes, and take it back I shall, but...
Nyna: Something is wrong. What troubles you?
Marth: Falchion isn't here.
Nyna: The divine blade? Was it supposed to be?
Marth: Yes. When one of my knights returned from the battle where my father, Cornelius, fell....he said Gra had stolen Falchion. And if we are to defeat Dolhr and the Shadow Dragon, Medeus...we need that blade.
Malledus: Prince Marth!
Marth: Did you find it, Malledus?
Malledus: No...it seems Gharnef made off with it.
Nyna: Gharnef? Then, to find Falchion-
Marth: That's right. We'll need to go to Khadein, the kingdom of magic, where he resides. It pains me to turn astray when Altea is so close, but it must be done.@Opening 
Not all of the League's soldiers took Catria of the Whitewings at her word. Some insisted her plea was a ruse, a trap concocted by Princess Minerva herself. Marth doubted that, though; he had seen the woman in Lefcandith Valley, and she did not strike him as a sort of conniving menace his followers feared. As the brunt of Grust's might drew closer, Marth led the League to Castle Deil, determined to attack the citadel and rescue the young Macedonian princess, Maria.

@Intro 
Zharov: Princess Minerva, what brings you here? You've left your post: not very wise. Might I remind you, poor conduct on your part could have repercussions on how...comfortable...your sister remains.
Minerva: I am aware of my sister, thank you. ...I did not come to make trouble. Just let me see Maria, for a little while. She's only a child, General. Think of what she must be going through.
Zharov: Impossible, I'm afraid. She is a hostage. If your sister's well-being concerns you, then start following orders.
Enemy Soldier: General! Grave news! The rebel army has been sighted east of Castle Deil!
Zharov: What?! Why in creation would the rebels come here? Blast...Order the Dragoons to sortie! And don't forget to send word to the main army. We need reinforcements!
Minerva: Rebels...? Then Marth has arrived...

@Visit 
Middle-aged Man: You know, once, there were three great magi in our world: Miloah, the Master of Aura; Gharnef, the Dark Pontifex; and Gotoh, the White Sage. But now Miloah is gone... If only there were somebody left powerful enough to stop Gharnef...

Young Man: "That Medonian princess, Minerva... She doesn’t seem like a bad sort. I have a sister, too, and if somebody threatened to hurt her... Well, I’m just sayin' you can’t always judge people based on their actions.

@Recruit-Talk 
%Marth,Maria
Maria: Oh! You must be Prince Marth! (My, he's so dashing!) ...Thank you for rescuing me. Please be sure to tell my sister I am free. She'll be grateful for the news. Now then. Shall we be off? I'm coming with you, of course.; ...No protesting! I wish to help!

%Marth,Minerva
Minerva: Greetings, Prince Marth. I am Minerva of Macedon. Thank you for saving my sister. Maria's plight forced me to treat you as an enemy when I knew you were not; suffice to say, I am deeply sorry for that. ...The whole world has gone mad. Most of Macedon fights for Dolhr now. My own brother Michalis leads them. And on their hands is the blood of their king, my father. They must be stopped; I must stop them. Still, I fear for my soldiers whom I can no longer protect, especially the three Whitewing sisters: Palla, Catria, and Est. Dolhr worried we would rebel, and forced us to separate. If they knew I was safe, they would join your ranks in a heartbeat. We are yours to command, sire. Let us help you defeat Dolhr, and repay them for sullying Macedon's honor.

@Battle-Talk 
%Maria,Minerva
Maria: Sister!
Minerva: Maria... Are you all right?
Maria: Fine. Have you heard? Marth made me one of his soldiers! Well...I made him make me one.
Minerva: ...What am I going to do with you? Listen to me, Maria... you cannot stay here. It's too dangerous. Real war is nothing like your stories of princes and damsels.
Maria: I'm not going anywhere! I want to stay with you!
Minerva: Maria, you're being selfish–
Maria: I am not! I'm just...sick of being helpless. I've burdened you long enough. How can I ever help you if you don't give me a chance to be strong? I'm staying here and fighting! No protesting!
Minerva: ...Ha ha. Somehow I knew you would say that. All right, Maria. If you feel that strongly about it, who am I to stop you? All I ask is that you be careful. If you need help, you come find me. Understood?
Maria: Of course! Thank you, Sister!

@Boss 
Zharov: Grrr... Must I do everything myself? Bah! You'll not get past me, rebel!

Zharov: They're a force... to be reckoned... with... Rrgh...

@End 
Nyna: Marth, have you ever heard of Pontifex Miloah?
Marth: The one who defended Archanea with the power of Aura? Of course; he and his magic are famous! But...I read Miloah died in a battle with Gharnef, soon after the fiend sold his soul to Dolhr...
Nyna: Alas, Miloah did die... But his daughter, Linde, yet lives. I am told she inherited her father's skill with Aura magic- but since the battle with Gharnef none have seen her. Wherever she is, it cannot be pleasant. ...Marth, please. Find Linde. With her father gone, we are the only family the girl has left.@Opening 
After shattering Macedon’s main force outside Aurelis Castle, Marth next led his army into the castle’s halls to liberate the kingdom. A number of treasures slept in Aurelis Castle’s nooks and crannies but how to extract them before they could fall into enemy hands? “Only a thief could open chests locked that tight,” grumbled one of Marth’s men. But we don’t have any thieves with us. …Do we?

@Intro
Emereus: What?! The rebels are inside the castle? Grrr…Very well! Armored units: intercept the intruders! Archers: defend the throne! Thieves, you go gather up the treasure while I make preparations to withdraw. You have your orders! Don’t let those rebels anywhere near this chamber!

@Recruit-Talk
%Julian,Rickard
Julian: What the- Rickard? What are you doin’ in here?
Rickard: Oh, uh… Hey there, Chief! Been a long time, huh? So, funny story: I decided to break in here and clean the place out- and then I got caught. Hilarious, right? Comedy gold. OK, your turn What are YOU doin’ here?
Julian: Me? I’ve washed my hands of thievery and joined the forces of justice.
Rickard: Ohhh really? Justice? So then this wouldn’t have nothin’ to do with some new lady friend? You always did have a soft spot for a pretty face and the right features-
Julian: Wha- Can it, you little fink! I said it’s about justice! I’m entitled to have moral crisis now and then! …You know what? Just for that, YOU are gonna work for me, startin’ right now.
Rickard: What? Do I have to…? Well, all right. You drive a hard bargain, but what can I say? I missed ya, Chief. Just make sure I get a cut out of the haul!

%Marth,Rickard
Rickard: …Wow! Really? A prince, you say? Thanks for springin’ me! I’m Rickard, just a small-time thief, mind you, but I’ve got big aspirations! I broke in here to clean the place out, and instead it was me that got my cloak cleaned… Since you saved my hide, I guess the least I can do is lend my services in return.

@Battle-Talk 
%Rickard,Marth
Rickard: So you’re the prince of Altea, then? Hello. I’m Rickard. Just a small-time thief, mind you, but I’ve got big aspirations! Julian asked me to help you out, see, and what the chief says, goes! So here I am.

@Boss 
Emereus: Blast! They're upon me! Why didn't those idiot soldiers stop them?!

Emereus: Rrgh... Why... ?

@End 
Nyna: Prince Marth… At long last. I am Nyna of House Archanea. ‘Tis Archanea’s burden to protect the world of crisis- a duty I have striven to fulfill. But Dolhr has laid waste to my kingdom, and now I find myself powerless to stop the world from falling into ruin. Marth… Please, pick up the banner where I have let it fall. Lead your might against Dolhr, and free us all.
Marth: Of course, Princess Nyna. Altea swore fealty to Archanea long ago, a vow we have always kept. And, as you know, it is in my blood – House Altea’s blood – to destroy Medeus just as Anri did before me.
Nyna: Thank you, Marth. Then let me give you this. This crest is called the Fire Emblem. House Archanea bestows it only upon a true champion, one we believe has the power to save the world. With it, you gain the right to open treasure chests across the land and wield the precious items within. I know you will use them well. Never give up, Marth. Fight, until the day you restore light to our world.@Opening 
The League had routed Hollstadt's knights and recaptured most of the kingdom, but there was still the castle to deal with before Altea would be free; the mage-dragon Morzas remained entrenched within its walls. Unlike General Camus who preceded him, Morzas had been a cruel warden, slaughtering many innocent Alteans at the slightest provocation. Marth roiled to think such a monster still sat upon his noble father's throne.

@Intro 
Morzas: Kee hee hee... Wretched Altean whelp, stumbling home to the slaughter... What fool throws away a life already so preciously bought? Your mother, Liza, is dead; I killed her myself. Your sister Elice lives only because Gharnef wanted her. So what will become of you, little prince? Will you run for your life a second time? Or will you stay this time to die? Emperor Medeus would not put me on this throne if he thought you could remove me from it, kee hee hee...

@Boss 
Morzas: Kee hee... Witless human! None defy a mage-dragon and live to speak of it!

Morzas: Grrf... I stand... corrected...B ut you still lack the power... to defeat Medeus...

@End 
Nyna: Marth! Any word? Have you found your family? Your sister?
Marth: ...My sister was taken by Gharnef. She is no longer here... And my...my mother is... She is dead. Slain...by that Dolhrian dragon...
Nyna: ....! Marth, I am truly sorry...
Marth: I thought there would be something...some part of my old life I would be coming back to. I fought so hard...
Nyna: You fought wonderfully, Marth.
Malledus: ...Sire, might I have a moment?
Marth: All the moments you want, Malledus. What is it?
Malledus: Your people have gathered outside the castle. They are overjoyed to be free again, sire, and would like very much to see their prince.
Marth: All right, then. I'll go at once.
Nyna: Marth...perhaps you should let that wait, just until you are able to share their joy with them. We could send someone in your stead-
Marth: No, that would not do. Today is a momentous day for my kingdom and my people. I must celebrate with them now, not later. Anything else would be a disservice to those who died to save Altea. I am a prince before I am a son or a brother. Come, Malledus. Let us go greet my people.

@Narration 
Thus Altea was liberated. Its people, ragged from years of Dolhrian tyranny, scrambled to the castle and flocked beneath its walls, eager to celebrate what, for many, would be remembered as the happiest days of their lives. They clapped each other on the back, laughed; and when Marth, their prince, appeared up above, they saluted their hero with a thunderous cheer: “Glory to Marth, our prince of light! Glory to our star and savior!” Marth smiled down at his people and waved. The great commander's last victory of the day was commanding his tears not to flow.@Opening 
Marth did as Gotoh instructed and chose soldiers for his journey into the unseen. What lay within the tower in this alternate world to test him? Marth’s heart wavered. But with neither the divine blade Falchion nor the divine dragon girl to aid him, the tower’s master was his last hope of defeating Medeus. Gotoh had told Marth to find a coffin. So while most of his companions remained in the material world to battle Doluna, Marth and his chosen few scoured the tower to search of a mysterious savior.

@Intro 
Marth: This must be the tower Lord Gotoh spoke of...
Malledus: Sire, it’s teeming with soldiers... Who are they? They fly no recognizable banner.
Marth: They are the Keepers whose test I must pass.
Malledus: You mean to fight them, then?
Marth: Gotoh says we must prove ourselves. Very well; we’ll seize the tower. Follow me!

@End 
Malledus: Sire, look! Stairs beneath the throne! Where could they lead?
Malledus: ...Do you think this is the coffin?
Marth: There are no others. And look: these markings around it are the same pattern we saw in the Fane of Raman...
Malledus: Hmm, you’re right...
Marth: We found a dragon girl in the fane... I wonder if these symbols-Huh?!
Malledus: Sire! The coffin... It’s opening!
Marth: What? No! It must be some kind of trap, or... or some kind of... er...
Marth: ...woman? Could she be the master Gotoh spoke of?
Nagi: ...Who are you?
Marth: My name is Marth, prince of Altea. And you, my lady?
Nagi: Me?! My name... is Nagi.
Marth: Nagi... I was sent here to find you, by a man named Gotoh.
Nagi: Gotoh... I know that name...But from where? I cannot recall.
Marth: You’ve lost your memory?
Nagi: I... cannot say for certain. But your voice... I heard you calling. Did you rouse me from my sleep?
Marth: I... er... Not on purpose?
Nagi: Your soul... called out to me...begging for my help. For this blade...
Marth: That...that’s Falchion! How did you get it?!
Nagi: I cannot remember... But you need it, I know that. And you need my powers.
Marth: Your... powers, my lady?
Nagi: Take me with you. I must... finish what I started... I think. I must fight with you.@Opening 
At long last, Altea was free again. Marth took the League to Helena Castle in the north, an old fortress and key supply point during Dolhr and Grust’s occupation. There he meant to seize the last of the enemy’s gold and provisions but Grust would not give up the castle without a fight...

@Intro 
Enemy Soldier: Lord Dactyl, I’ve brought the mage.
Dactyl: Good. Hold him up.
Etzel: ...Nngh....
Dactyl: Well, then? Have you been persuaded to fight for us?
Etzel: ...Never. I’d rather die.
Dactyl: You’d rather DIE? Ha! As if a spell-slinging vagabond like you has any choice in the matter! Enough. Strip him of all his possessions and lock him up someplace. Perhaps we can use him later.
Enemy Soldier: There’s not much to strip him of, milord. Just the tome and this ring...
Dactyl: Ring? Let me have a look at that.
Etzel: No! Don’t you- Grr, let me go! Don’t you touch Ursula’s ring!
Dactyl: Wha... what are you- yaagh!
Enemy Soldier: O-oi! Take your hands off Lord Dactyl!
Etzel: Rrgh... please, not the ring! ...Give it BACK!
Dactyl: Unhand me, you filthy maggot!
Etzel: Nngh! ...Unnh...
Dactyl: Take this wretch away. Now!
Enemy Soldier: At once, milord!
Dactyl: Hmph, all that for some tawdry ring. ...Hmm? That gives me an idea...

@Battle 
Enemy Soldier: I’ve brought him, milord.
Dactyl: Good. I’ve had a change of heart. I am considering giving that ring of yours back.
Etzel: ...!
Dactyl: BUT...you must face the League for us. How much considering I do hinges on how well you fight.
Etzel: ...And how am I to fight unarmed, my lord?
Dactyl: Hmm? ...Ah. yes, well, you can have your little book back. But you know what the consequences will be if you betray us...
Etzel: For now, I’ll just have to feign obedience...

@Boss 
Etzel: Sorry. I mean you no harm, but neither have I any wish to die here.

Dactyl: Blast! Where have those indolent guards gone?

Dactyl: Unnh... gwaaah!

@End 
Malledus: Prince Marth! Grust’s garrison left their war chest when they fled. This much gold should buy plenty of equipment. Might I suggest, sire, you avail yourself of this opportunity to outfit your soldiers? Our next opponent will be Grust’s Sable Order. By our scouts’ reports, they march to meet us as we speak. Many say their knights are the strongest on the continent. We’ll want to be well prepared.
Etzel: You’re Prince Marth, aren’t you? I wish to thank you.
Marth: ...Who are you?
Etzel: My name is Etzel. I am a traveling sorcerer. Those Grustian cowards stole a ring from me, and were it not for you, I might never have seen it again.
Marth: The ring must have been very dear to you, then.
Etzel: It’s all I have to remember my wife by. She got caught in the fighting back when Gra betrayed Altea...
Marth: Those were dark days. You have my deepest sympathies; I lost my father in the same battle.
Etzel: Will there be no end to this bloodshed?
Marth: There will, Etzel. I have sworn to end it; that’s the very reason all of us fight.
Etzel: And you think you can end it, just like that? From anyone else’s lips that would sound absurdly naive. But I can tell you are sincere. Tell me, Prince, have you any need for an extra... spell slinger? I’ve no taste for war, but I do have a fierce hunger for ending it. Let’s usher in a new era, you and I.@Opening 
The Sable Order fought valiantly to keep Marth’s army from reaching Chiasmir, but in the end Grust’s knights buckled: the world’s mightiest only in song. The League marched on to the Fane of Raman, a holy sanctuary built by the divine dragoons to house their most priceless treasures. Here another story was set to begin...

@Intro 
Gharnef: Tiki... Tiki... Princess-that-was of the great divine dragons ...Can you hear my voice?
Tiki: ....Mm-hmm.
Gharnef: Defilers have set foot inside the fane- despoilers! Punish them. Let your fire consume them!
Tiki: Defilers... in the fane... Punish them...
Gharnef: Remember, Tiki. Your divine dragon kin perished long ago, and Bantu has abandoned you... I alone am protecting you from Medeus. Remember...
Tiki: You alone... are protecting me... Punish... the defilers...

@Recruit-Talk 
%Bantu,Tiki 
Bantu: Tiki! Tiki, my child! At last, I have found you!
Tiki: No... Stop... Come no closer...
Bantu: Hm? ...Gharnef has put you in some sort of trance, poor thing. Peace, child. Peace. Awaken.
Tiki: ...Mmm? ....Ban-Ban? Is that you? Where am I? What happened?
Bantu: Yes, child. ’tis I, ’tis I. How I worried! Are you hurt?
Tiki: No, Ban-Ban, just...just scared...I feel as though I just woke from an awful nightmare...
Bantu: I am truly sorry, child. Truly, I am. I will not let us be separated again. From now on, I will be there to protect you.
Tiki: Promise? You have to promise, Ban-Ban. I hate being alone...

@Recruit-Battle 
Tiki: N-no! Please! Come no closer!

Tiki: Ban-Ban... Wh-why did you leave me?

@Battle-Talk 
%Marth,Tiki
Marth: You must be Tiki. Bantu told me all about you.
Tiki: Ban-Ban told me all about you, too. Will you take me with you?
Marth: Of course, Tiki, as long as that’s what you want.
Tiki: Yes, yes, it is! Oh, thank you, Mar-Mar!
Marth: Mar-Mar?!
Tiki: Am I not allowed to call you that?
Marth: N- That is- Er- Well, if you want.
Tiki: Thank you, Mar-Mar!
Marth: You’re welcome?

%Xane,Tiki 
Tiki: Huh? Xaney, where'd you go?
Xane: Huh? Xaney, where'd you go?
Tiki: Xaney?! Why are you imitating me!
Xane: Xaney?! Why are you imitating me!
Tiki: Cut that out right now!
Xane: Cut that out right now!
Tiki: Ugh, I HATE you, Xaney!
Xane: Huh? Hey, wait, Tiki! Oh come on. I was just jokin' around! Tryin' to lighten the mood! It's not like I can transform into a dragon like you so just– Oh, would you come back?
Tiki: Meanie.
Xane: So how are you holdin' up, kiddo?
Tiki: Im all right.
Xane: Still having those bad dreams?
Tiki: Sometimes. They're really scary...
Xane: I bet they are. (...Ugh, what does Lord Gotoh expect me to do?)
Tiki: Did you say something?
Xane: Oh! No, no, it's nothin'. Hey, you know that Marth's countin' on those powers of yours.
Tiki: Uh-huh... Why?
Xane: So, uh... you just take care of yourself, that's all. You're one special kid.
Tiki: I know.

@End 
Nyna: Marth! Tell me, was it a success? Did you locate the Lightsphere and Starsphere?
Marth: Never fear; I have them. We need to take these to Gotoh so he can undo Imhullu’s magic... But first, Nyna, we’ve a more pressing task ahead of us.
Nyna: Oh? And what is that?
Marth: We must defeat Grust once and for all. If we march south without finishing them off, we have our rear exposed.
Nyna: Then you mean to invade.
Marth: Yes. And this time, General Camus will be there to meet us. I am sure of it. Camus the Sable, they call him. Many extol him as the most able warrior alive. It will be a fierce battle... but one we cannot avoid.
Nyna: You are certain we must face him?
Marth: We have crippled Grust, but they will regroup and stand in our way again. No, we need to stamp this fire out before the wind catches it and starts spreading it anew.
Nyna: Very well. But before you attack, there is something I must tell you. Later, though... Not yet. I must sort my feelings out first...