@Intro 
Asbel: Sir Ced, d'you reckon the kids are safe?
Ced: Think of it the way Raydrik would: would you send a convoy all the way to Belhalla with only three or four children? Or would you wait until you have plenty to show for yourself? There's still time, Asbel.
Asbel: Then we can send 'em all back home! Their moms must be awful worried.
Ced: Focus, Asbel. There's too many guards about to celebrate just yet.
Asbel: Yessir.
Ced: Listen closely: after you've rescued the children, I want you to rejoin Brighton and seek out Prince Leif of House Leonster.
Asbel: C-Come again? Prince Leif?!
Ced: Indeed. He fell prey to some trap of Raydrik's and was imprisoned in this very castle. ...Asbel, what's wrong? You're white as a sheet!
Asbel: Lord Leif was a dear friend of mine, y'see. We got separated in Tarrah, years ago, an' I've been looking for him ever since. For three whole years, I've been searching...
Ced: Then look alive—today is the day you've been waiting for. Find the prince, and escape Munster with him. I've ordered all Magi outside the castle to flee Manster as well. We'll be sitting ducks if we stay here much longer...
Asbel: Are you coming with us?
Ced: I... considered it, but I can't. There's many villagers and townsfolk left in Munster, and they need my aid just as much.
Asbel: You've spent this whole time teachin' me, an' I can't even help you in return? Some apprentice I turned out to be...
Ced: No, this is my choice, Asbel. It's no fault of yours. Besides, all I really taught you was that Grafcalibur spell. Do me proud, and use it to protect Prince Leif.
Asbel: Sir Ced, will... will we see each other again?
Ced: If Prince Leif is the hero we've been waiting for, then the long night is finally over, and Thracia will breathe free again. ...We will see each other again, Asbel. Right here in Munster.
Asbel: Munster...? R-Right! Munster it is! Don't you forget it, Sir Ced!

Girl: *Sniffle... sniffle...*
Boy: C'mon, knock off the waterworks...
Girl: B-B-But...! *Sniffle*
Boy: Don't make them soldiers mad at us again. They'll just tell us to "Quit yer bellyachin'!" like last time...
Girl: I don't care if they get mad! If I get caught cryin', an' they get angry... Maybe they'll jus' send me home... I jus' wanna go home...

@Recruit-Talk 
%Leif,Asbel
Asbel: Lord Leif...! After all these years! It's me, Asbel!
Leif: Asbel?! What in the world are you doing here? Why aren't you still in Tarrah?
Asbel: I set off after you just as soon as we got separated! Lotta good that did... I couldn't figure out where you'd gone. For the last half-year now, I been stickin' around Munster.
Leif: You left Tarrah that quickly?! Then... you've spent the last three years looking for me...
Asbel: Of course I did! I promised you as much, remember? With your blade and my magic, we were gonna take Thracia back—together! But you just up an' left me behind! That... that was awful heartless of you, Leif. Er, Lord Leif.
Leif: I'm sorry... At the time, I didn't have a choice. Tarrah had been surrounded by the Empire. I had... I had prepared myself for the very real possibility of dying. When I fled, I never imagined I would make it out alive. I didn't want to drag you down with me, so I left you out of it.
Asbel: What a load of pegasus dung...! We swore to live and die together, didn't we? Or was that whole oath just part of some kids' game? I've spent all these years with those words etched into my mind—and I chose to believe in them.
Leif: A-Asbel...
Asbel: Lord Leif, if only for my sake, you have to liberate Thracia! Make it so that my years of searching meant something!

@Battle-Talk 
%Karin,Ced
Karin: Lord Ced! Oh, Lord Ced, after all this time...
Ced: Yes? Wait... Karin? Has something happened? Why have you left Silesse?
Karin: To... To find you, my prince!
Ced: To find me ...? Oh, for heaven's sake... Did Fee put you up to this? Or was it my mother?
Karin: ...... Lord Ced, I have some... important news for you.
Ced: Is that so? Well, let's hear it.
Karin: W-Well, to tell the truth... Oh, gods... ......
Ced: Karin, if you have something to tell me, speak quickly and to the point. This is no time for weakness.
Karin: Y-You're right... I... I regret to inform you that Her Majesty the Queen has... she, um...
Ced: Mother?! No, she can't have...!
Karin: I'm... afraid so, milord. Two months ago...
Ced: Mother is... My mother has... passed away...?
Karin: Lord Ced... I'm sorry. You shouldn't have found out like this. Here, of all places...
Ced: Does it matter? I was too late... Father... I wanted them to see each other one last time...
Karin: Lord Ced, return to Silesse with me—please. Lady Fee is waiting for you.
Ced: Fee... How is she? Is she all right?
Karin: Silesse faces dire times, milord. Lady Fee can put up a tough front for the others, but when it's just me an' her, she... she cries till her eyes dry up. Lord Ced, with respect, you've done her a great cruelty, runnin' away like you did. Lady Fee isn't much more than a kid, and you've gone and forced the burden of ruling Silesse onto her. That holy blood in your veins has gone to your head! You're the heir to Forseti's legacy, good for you, but you up an' walked out on your mother and sister! Does that sound like what a hero would do? Does that even sound like what a real prince would do?!
Ced: Karin, I... You're right, of course, but... But Father was the only one who could cure Mother's illness! I couldn't do her any good just waiting at her side! Was I supposed to just sit there and watch her waste away?! So I... I went to find Father, by whatever means I could.
Karin: Then why are you leading some rebel group in Munster?!
Ced: I heard tell that my father had been here in Munster until half a year ago. I came here to pick up the trail, but when I arrived, he had already left. But after seeing the it had gone cold. As I investigated, I discovered just how deeply the people of Munster suffered. I couldn't abandon them as my father had abandoned Silesse.
Karin: Is that right...? I apologize, Lord Ced... I should've heard your side of the story before judging you...
Ced: I'm sorry, Karin, but I need more time. If I can drive that menace Raydrik from Munster, I'll gladly return to Silesse. By my estimation, that should only take a half- year at most.
Karin: ...You're fixin' to overthrow that creep, huh? Now that's a plan I can get behind! Count me in—I'll stay here with you!
Ced: Heh. I'm flattered, Karin, but as your prince, I insist you head back to Silesse. I couldn't fight knowing you were endangering yourself.
Karin: ...That's a diplomatic way of saying I would be a burden. But you're right: I would just slow you down. All right, I'll make my way back to Silesse—but only if you promise to come home yourself, Lord Ced.
Ced: You have my word—and as proof of my vow, I bestow this upon you.
Karin: Er, what is it? A used handkerchief?
Ced: Hah! Would you believe this is an heirloom of the Silessian royal family? It's an ancient scroll, penned by my namesake—the crusader Ced himself. He imbued it with potent magic that strengthens whoever so much as holds it. I was... supposed to give it to my betrothed, actually. Instead, I entrust it to you, Karin.
Karin: Are you really trusting me with something so valuable? I... This is most unexpected!
Ced: Karin... I did wrong by my mother, and I'm sorry. I owe you much for helping Fee in my absence, and this is a token of my gratitude. I want you to have it.
Karin: ...OK, but I'm only keeping it safe for you. You'll get it back the second you return to Silesse!
Ced: Then the snowy banks of Silesse shall be witness to our next meeting. Be well, Karin.
Karin: You said it! Gods be with you, Lord Ced!
/***EOF***/
@Intro 
Eyvel: Little Lady! You're a sight for sore eyes!
Nanna: Eyvel…
Eyvel: I can't tell you how glad I am that you're safe, Little Nan. Did that maggot Raydrik hurt you?
Nanna: I-I'm fine, but... but Mareeta, she...
Eyvel: Mareeta?! What's happened to my Mareeta?!
Nanna: I don't know if she's even alive... We were separated as soon as we got to the castle.
Eyvel: Raydrik! This your idea of a joke?! You gave me your word that I could see my daughter! Are you such an excuse of a man that even your word means nothing?!
Raydrik: I never lied. Of course you can see your daughter. I just made a small... omission.
Nanna: Look out, Eyvel! There's armed men coming toward us!
Eyvel: Tch!
Raydrik: These are my terms: defeat my prized pitfighters, and you can see your daughter.
Eyvel: ……
Raydrik: Ah, here they come now. Pitfighters, meet Eyvel. Eyvel, pitfighters. You've had your introductions—let it never be said that I'm a poor host.
Nanna: E-Eyvel...
Eyvel: ...Little Nan, this is gonna get real dangerous, real quick. Stay clear and keep your head down.

@Battle 
Raydrik: A thousand apologies to have kept you waiting, Bishop Veld.
Veld: Raydrik, you could not make one apology and mean it, much less a thousand. For the Baron of such a troubled area as Munster, you seem to have an abundance of free time. These theatrics are not what you promised you would spend your time on.
Raydrik: I am... certain Your Eminence will enjoy the spectacle I've prepared.
Veld: *Sigh* Oh, very well. I could do with a moment's diversion.
Raydrik: Well, it's all in her hands now... That "Swordmaster" better live up to her name. Ah, and now the star takes center stage! Heh, heh, heh...

Raydrik: Tch... In the end, she was a shadow of what the rumors made her out to be.
Soldier: What do you want done with her, sire?
Veld: Don't kill her, Raydrik. Leave her fate in my hands.
Eyvel: Wh-What...?
Soldier: G-Gods' breath... Your spellcraft is truly a sight to behold, Your Eminence. Not even the wildest fable could compare to this...
Veld: Heh, heh, heh...
Raydrik: A-And now I have a perfect statue of the proud swordswoman of Fiana—an eternal monument to the price of defiance! Ahahaha!

Soldier: ...What about Finn's little brat?
Raydrik: Hmm... Leave the girl be. That fragile little thing couldn't escape the castle. After this, I'm sure she'll serve as a most entertaining diversion!
Soldier: As you wish, sire.
Nanna: …Eyvel…

Raydrik: She's even more skilled than I'd hoped...! How delightful! Here, a reward befitting a magnificent performer!
Eyvel: What're you scheming?!
Raydrik: Heh... Bring the girl out!
Eyvel: M-Mareeta...?
Mareeta: ……
Nanna: Mareeta, Mareeta! Oh, you're safe after all! I can't tell you how worried I—
Eyvel: Little Nan, don't move a muscle!
Nanna: Huh?
Mareeta: ……
Eyvel: Mareeta! Talk to me...!
Mareeta: ...K-Kill... ...Kill... Kill... KILL... WITH THIS SWORD... ALL...ALL... ALL OF YOU... KILL ALL OF YOU!
Eyvel: ...Mareeta... you...
Raydrik: Mother and daughter, reunited at last! Tell me, is she all that you remembered, Eyvel?
Eyvel: ...What have you done to my Mareeta?!
Raydrik: Me? I didn't do anything. Quite the contrary: she was trying to escape, so I gave her that sword to grant her a fighting chance. It's an exceptional blade, straight from the treasure vault inside this very castle. ...The Shadow Sword, I believe it's called.
Eyvel: The Shadow Sword, a cursed blade... You trying to turn my Mareeta into one of your damned pitfighters with your little gift?
Raydrik: My gift is cursed, you say? Well, this is the first I'm hearing of it.
Eyvel: I'll rip that lying tongue right out of your mouth! How... How dare you do this to Mar—
Raydrik: Amusing as your threats are, shouldn't you be worrying about yourself right now? The Shadow Sword bears incredible power—an exceptional gift for an exceptional woman! Ahahaha...!
Eyvel: Raydrik...! Mareeta, look at me! Snap out of it!
Mareeta: ……

Raydrik: What's the meaning of this? The girl wields the Shadow Sword, yet she struggles to finish the job!
Veld: Hmm... The blade does not appear to rule over her completely.
Raydrik: That's absurd! As if that mere child could... could—
Veld: The memories of her mother make her falter and hesitate. Her emotions dull the sword's strength the same as running its edge across stone. She's like a caged animal, desperately throwing herself against her binds. Or have you not even noticed her tears, you imbecile?

Mareeta: Argh...! Let go... LET GO...
Eyvel: ...Sorry about this, Mareeta.
Mareeta: Ugh...!
Raydrik: What...?! She's been knocked out cold... Is this some kind of jest...?!
Eyvel: ...Raydrik, you hellspawn... As long as my heart beats, I'll never forgive you...

@Boss
Mareeta: ……
Eyvel: ...Mareeta... I'm sorry... I'm so sorry...
Raydrik: She prevailed against even the Shadow Sword... Is this some kind of jest...?!
Eyvel: ...Raydrik, you hellspawn... As long as my heart beats, I'll never forgive you...
Raydrik: D-Damn…!

@Battle 
Raydrik: Th-The woman's a beast...! F-Fine, the girl wasn't enough for you?! Let's see how you do against my entire garrison! All hands, enter the arena and stain the ground with her blood!

Leif: Nanna! You're safe!
Nanna: L-Lord Leif! Please, you have to help Eyvel! I don't know how much more of this she can take!
Leif: Leave it to us—but stay behind me, Nanna! Commander, are you all right?
Eyvel: Little Lord! Everyone! Heh, good to see you all made it!
Leif: I can't begin to thank you for protecting Nanna in this ghastly place.
Eyvel: Would that I could've done the same for my own kin...
Leif: No... What's happened to Mareeta?
Veld: Panicking already, Raydrik? Fear not. I'll clean up your mess for you.
Eyvel: Wh-What...?!
Raydrik: G-Gods' breath... Your spellcraft is truly a sight to behold, Your Eminence. Not even the wildest fable could compare to this...
Veld: Heh, heh, heh...
Raydrik: A-And now I have a perfect statue of the proud warrior of Fiana—an eternal monument to the price of defiance! Ahahaha! We've nothing to fear now! There's no rescuing a block of stone!

Nanna: Eyvel... I'm sorry. I'll always honor your sacrifice...

@End
Leif: I'll come back for you, Commander! I'll... I'll grow strong enough to storm this whole city if I have to! No force in all the heavens can stop me! So just... just... ......
/***EOF***/
@Opening
Reuniting with the remnants of the Freeblades of Fiana, Leif made his way west. Carrion, the knight entrusted to him by General Hannibal, served as his guide through the treacherous mountain range. They now approached the foot of Mount Violdrake, home to Dagdar and his familiar group of brigands...

@Intro 
Carrion: Ah, feel that earthy, mountain air! That's how you can tell we're just at the base of Mount Violdrake.
Leif: Your help has been invaluable, Carrion. You should make your way back to General Hannibal—we can take it from here.
Carrion: I'm... not returning to Thracia, milord. I told General Hannibal of my intentions, and he gave me his blessing.
Leif: What?
Carrion: Do you think the General a fool? He knew full well who you really were—as does half the Thracian Peninsula. Rumors of a surviving Leonster heir have been circulating for years. Anyone with sense knew it was only a matter of time until this survivor took up arms and rallied an army to battle the Empire. I always expected—nay, prayed—that this day would come, and now I have the honor of taking part in the liberation myself! The motherland shall soon breathe free again!
Leif: Motherland? You... mean to say you're not Thracian?
Carrion: Indeed. I was born to a sworn knight of House Leonster. My father perished in the war, but my mother and I were taken in by General Hannibal. Ah... but I'm being presumptuous, aren't I? If it pleases you, Prince Leif, I want nothing more than to fight for House Leonster again, and reclaim our sovereign land.
Leif: I'm... not sure that I'm the liege you seek, frankly. I don't know that I have power enough to reclaim Leonster—for the time being, I merely want to aid Tarrah.
Carrion: Even so, as long as I fight beneath the banner of House Leonster, I care not what the cause is. If you wish us elsewhere, milord, so be it. Assuming you accept my oath, I suggest we make for General Hannibal's villa.
Leif: Hm? General Hannibal didn't seem the type to own a lavish mountain villa...
Carrion: He's not. The villa is a safehouse for those like me: the many refugees of the fallen families of Leonster. There, under the protection of General Hannibal, Duke Dryas trains us in the ways of knighthood.
Leif: D-Did I hear you correctly? Dryas...?! I can scarcely believe it... Duke Dryas is alive...?
Carrion: See for yourself, milord. Shall we be off?
Leif: Of course, at once! Being able to see Duke Dryas again... It's like a waking dream!
August: Begging your pardon, my prince, but I've a matter of some urgency. The bandits of this area—Dagdar's gang, to be precise—are out in force, and seem to be pillaging a nearby village. What are your orders, sire?
Leif: Say no more. I apologize, Carrion, but it seems Duke Dryas will have to wait. Will you aid me in defending the villagers?
Carrion: Hah! You needn't ask—I'd be worried if you didn't want to help them, milord! Still, this is most curious... This is Dagdar's territory, and the villages are under his protection. Why are they attacking...?

Rumei: All right, pay up. Your crew might be happy spendin' all day stickin' up farmers, but I got an actual army to get back to.
Gomes: Change of plans. Gonna need you to put in a little extra elbow grease—looks like there's a whole group of folk comin' this way. Dunno why they're here, but I need you to keep 'em clear of the manor while I'm inside. Once that's done, you'll get every coin.
Rumei: Damn, this was just supposed to be a one-time thing... All right, fine—but it'll cost you extra if you want me to stick around.

@Battle 
Rumei: Ugh, I didn't know Gomes an' his boys were gonna take forever and a day! Hmm... This ain't worth it. Can't get caught up in this whole scene an' have someone recognize me...

@Recruit-Talk 
%Osian,Marty
Marty: Calm down, Marty, he ain't recognized you... Now wait fer an openin' and run for the hills—
Osian: Hm? Wait, you're... Hey, Marty, ol' buddy!
Marty: What? Marty? Don't know no Marty. Haven't even heard the name before—
Osian: Marty, pal, I could spot that chin of yours from a mile away. What are you doing here?
Marty: Er, well... It weren't my idea, I swear! It was all Gomes' idea! He made me do it...!
Osian: That isn't the problem here! C'mon, Marty! Raiding villages?! You think that's what Dagdar would want? Or the Commander? If you've seen fit to go against everything they taught you, then you're just another bandit, and I got no choice but to cut you down!
Marty: Wait, wait! I... ...Boy, you sure know how to guilt-trip a guy, don'tcha? Musta learned it from that father of yours... *Sigh* When yer right, yer right. It was wrong of me to go along with this...
Osian: ...So you're with us, then? You'll help us fight off these bandits?
Marty: F-F-Fight off the bandits? Even Gomes?! Er... Well, y'see... I, uh...
Osian: Argh! You should be ashamed, Marty! Just man up and say it: are you with us, or against us?!
Marty: I'm with you! I'll help you fight the bandits! Just... please don't yell at me no more...

%Halvan,Marty 
Marty: Calm down, Marty, he ain't recognized you... Now wait fer an openin' and run for the hills—
Halvan: Hm? Is that... Marty, is that you?
Marty: What? Marty? Don't know no Marty. Haven't even heard the name before—
Halvan: Marty, you're tall enough to be a lightning rod. I could spot you all the way from Belhalla. What I can't figure out is why you're here...
Marty: Er, well... It weren't my idea, I swear! It was all Gomes' idea! He made me do it...!
Halvan: "He made me do it!" Listen to yourself, Marty! It's not enough that you're raiding villages? You've gotta make up excuses too?
Marty: I couldn't do nuthin' about it! It ain't my fault...
Halvan: ...All right, we're going in circles here. Just tell me one thing: have you gone against what Dagdar and the Commander taught you? Are you just a common bandit now?
Marty: W-Well, when you put it like that... I... g-guess it was wrong of me to go along with this...
Halvan: Then you're still a friend of the Freeblades, right? So you'll fight alongside us like a friend would?
Marty: ……
Halvan: Marty!
Marty: Y-Yessir! 'Course I will, sir!

@Boss 
Rumei: Sorry for your luck, but I need the coin. I got no illusions--I know this is wrong.

Rumei: Elaine... Mahal... Min... I'm sorry... P-Papa isn't comin' home...

Rumei: Whether I like it or not, you've extended me a mercy-one I didn't offer you. As for this whole banditry business... I think the one time was enough. I'll find some other way to support my kids-somethin' honest.

@Recruit-Battle
Marty: Somehow, these things just keep happenin' to me...

Marty: Wh-Why me...? What'd I do...?

Marty: Er... Look, I know I done wrong, OK? I didn't wanna fight you, honest, but I had no choice! They made me!

@End 
Leif: That's the end of that, I suppose...
August: Seems we've largely disposed of the bandits, sire.
Leif: Without Dagdar to keep them in line, look how quickly they reverted to this savagery...
August: I'm reminded of a certain proverb: "A thousand pegasi led by one dragon can defeat a thousand dragons led by one pegasus." There is nothing more essential than the authority a man answers to: a king, a god, a conscience, a code... Through it, evil men can be led to do good, and good men can be led to do evil. We've seen as much with Dagdar's men, here. This is true of any group, be it a grand army or a small gang of bandits. The example set by their leader is what the people will follow. ...Do you understand, Prince Leif?
Leif: ...Yes. I must take that lesson to heart.

August: Prince Leif, I've brought the man claiming to be in charge of these ruffians.
Leif: Let me get a look at you... Wait, you were in charge of these brigands? Why is the Thracian coat of arms on your breastplate, then?
Rumei: It's no business of yours, junior. Just take my head and be done with it.
Leif: No. There's been enough blood spilled today. I'll make you a deal: indulge my questions, and you have my word you'll walk free.
Rumei: I could... walk free? Oh, that's a cruel joke! If I accepted mercy from an enemy, I'd bring shame to the Dracoknights!
Leif: Just before we arrived here, I also had to choose between my survival and accepting help from an enemy. I... know how it feels. I take it you have a wife? Children, perhaps? If I have to kill you here, they'll be out on the street. Is that what you want?
Rumei: ……
Leif: I'm sure you had your reasons for doing this. As far as I'm concerned, I don't even need to know who you are or what your station is. Tell me what I want to know, and I have no reason to pursue you.
Rumei: ...Ask your question.
Leif: The lord of that manor, Dagdar, and his daughter Tanya—where are they?
Rumei: ...... They're inside, and they're not alone. Gomes, the one who hired me, he's makin' his move on 'em. Didn't say exactly what his plans were, but he didn't have to. I could tell he was fixin' to kill 'em both.
Leif: I see... Thank you. August, see that this man and his dragon mount are freed at once.
August: ...As you wish.
Rumei: ...Sorry for the trouble, for what it's worth.

Leif: Dagdar! You're all right!
Dagdar: Well, I'll be... Prince Leif! Heh, an' here I was the one who was supposed to be rescuin' you! Sorry fer draggin' ya into my mess... So, where's Eyvel? She head back to Fiana, or is she with you?
Leif: ……
Dagdar: Prince... What happened?
Leif: Eyvel is... still in Munster. We... didn't have the forces to rescue her. I couldn't save her...
Dagdar: Wh-What?! Dammit, Leif! Are you a real prince or just a child?! How the hell could ya just leave her?!
Leif: There was nothing I could do! I... I wasn't strong enough, wasn't fast enough, I... With my meager strength, what good am I to anyone? What should I do? What CAN I do?
Dagdar: ……
Leif: If... If I'd just been a little stronger... If I had done things differently, maybe—
Dagdar: Dammit, Prince! Yer puttin' too much of the blame on yerself.
Leif: But—
Dagdar: Look, I'm sorry fer yellin' at you just now. I... I wasn't expecting things to go so wrong, an' I took it out on you. Truth be told, Prince, yer tougher'n most. You tried to rescue her, right? Ya made the effort, and it ain't yer fault it didn't work out.
Leif: D-Dagdar...
Dagdar: Sure, you kids are goin' through some rough times right now, no doubt. But quit yer worryin', cuz I'll be helpin' ya from now on! It ain't like anybody can replace Eyvel, but you still got a long way to go before this war is lost. An' hey, captured ain't dead, right? We'll get Eyvel back—together.

Tanya: L-Lord Leif...!
Leif: Tanya... It's good to see you again.
Tanya: Yeah, I guess... There's not much to it, really. Gomes just let me go after he found out that Papa was already dead. He... He said he was sorry about the village. There was no point to this whole damn attack with Papa long since buried...
Leif: I see... Listen, Tanya, I'm... truly sorry for what happened to your father...
Tanya: No, it's OK... Papa did what he thought was right. If he died for something, he must've really believed in it.
Leif: What will you do now, Tanya? If you don't have any other plans, perhaps... perhaps you could come with us.
Tanya: Is... Is that really all right with you, having me tag along?
Leif: Of course! You're always welcome with us!
Tanya: Yeah... Yeah, this is just what I need! You bet your Light Brand I'll come with you! Th-Thank you!
/***EOF***/
@Opening 
Having seized the infamous Fort Dandrum, Leif's Liberation Army was keenly aware just how little time remained before the Empire launched its assault on Tarrah. Scarcely taking a moment to catch their breath, the Liberation Army kept marching well into the evening, determined to come to the city's defense before it was too late. When they finally arrived at the edges of Dakia Forest, which extends around Tarrah's eastern border, it was the dead of night. The thick foliage obscured what little moonlight had been illuminating their path, and the forest was now blanketed in a deep, foreboding darkness...

@Intro 
Salem: Perne, your shift is done. Let me take over for you on lookout.
Perne: It's already past dusk, Salem. How can you be this energetic now, especially with how bad you were roughed up?
Salem: Come now, it was all thanks to you that I managed to survive. I'll be fine.
Perne: Still, those Loptian lunatics are a sadistic bunch, ain't they? If we hadn't happened to pass by, you'd have been a goner for sure.
Salem: ......The Loptr Church never forgives betrayal. That is one of their highest tenets...
Perne: "Betrayal" is a bit of a stretch, ain't it? I mean, you just said you wanted to leave the Order, that's all. It ain't right to kill a man just because he wants to go his own way. ...But I gotta ask you, why'd you want to leave in the first place? I hear the Loptian bishops have even more power than the Emperor now. That's an awful luxurious position to just walk away from.
Salem: I... no longer understood the Order. That was my reason—nothing more, nothing less.
Perne: Hmm... Simple as that, huh? I like the cut of your jib, kid. How about you join up with me and my crew? We could use someone like you. If you're up for it, that is.
Salem: I admit, your... unusual sense of ethics hasn't gone unnoticed by me. You're bandits, true, but you do not kill, and you refuse to steal from the poor. So long as you continue to abide by that code, I'll agree to stay here.
Perne: I'm not in the hobby of murder, myself—but our crew has swelled in number lately, and I can't say the same for the new folks. Especially this one hothead, Colho. Him and his lackeys are gettin' antsy about how I won't let them drop any bodies during a heist.
Salem: It's more than that. Colho and his followers are truly wicked men—they've been attacking travelers and passing merchants.
Perne: Ah... So you already heard about them, huh? I'll get right to the point, then: I'm plannin' on cuttin' ties with the lot of them. Long as Troude comes with me, I can manage just fine. Of course, I'm hoping you'll also come along, Salem.
Salem: Don't forget about Tina. See that you're mindful of her feelings, and don't be too harsh with her—she's little more than a child.
Perne: Hah... All right, all right. Anyhow, I'm headed back inside. Looks like you get your wish, cuz I'm trusting you with guard duty. Don't say I never did anything for you. Just be on the lookout for the Imperial Army. With all the troops they're sending to Tarrah, they might come through the forest. If they find us, we'll be sitting ducks.
Salem: Not to worry. If anyone draws near, I'll use my Sleep staff to send them into a deep night's slumber.

Saias: ...Well, I must be off. I do apologize for burdening you so, but please, for my sake, watch over the child.
Woman: Yer more'n welcome, Bishop. Just leave everything to me, and don't you fret about it fer one moment longer.
Mareeta: Bishop Saias... Are you leaving already?
Saias: I'm afraid so—I must return to Grannvale. I regret having to leave you behind like this, but your wounds seem to have healed nicely. You'll be just fine on your own.
Mareeta: ...I don't know how I can ever repay you, Bishop. If not for you, I—
Saias: You certainly don't lack for gratitude, but everything else about you—your stance, your face—is marred by regret. What happened was unavoidable—your will was pitted against darkness itself, and the Shadow Sword's influence was strong indeed. Your penitence for turning the blade against your mother is beyond question. You'd do well to put the memory behind you. But if my words alone cannot convince you, I offer the sword itself as proof: I've dispelled the curse placed upon the blade. Now I offer it to you, as a symbol that no darkness is impenetrable, and no regret is irredeemable.
Mareeta: Y-You want me to use that damned sword?! I'm not laying a finger on that foul thing ever again!
Saias: You want to carry on your mother's legacy and become a Swordmaster, do you not? If that's your goal, you must learn to understand weapons in a different light. All weapons, all swords, are the product of human intent. They are what they are because their creator wished them to be that way. Holy blades and cursed blades alike were forged by the hands of men. They are an extension of will, a manifestation of purpose. Take the Shadow Sword. Use it for your own ends. Assert your will over that which once robbed you of it. In so doing, you can rewrite the legacy of this evil blade into something more. Use its power to forge a new future—for it and for yourself. If you wish to live as a Swordmaster, you must learn to cherish all blades, for they are the tools that allow you to enact your will. See them not as reminders of the past, but as means to achieve a new future. For if you cannot unshackle yourself from the past, you cannot call yourself a Swordmaster.
Mareeta: I... think I understand. I'll wield the sword, and cherish it as a symbol of how not even the foulest magic could overcome my mother's love for me.
Saias: Very good. If you have the resolve to keep that sword in hand, I've a feeling that the gods may reunite you with your mother someday. With that, I'm afraid I must be going. I've lingered here much too long. I doubt that we'll cross paths again, but I pray you find happiness.
Mareeta: The same to you, Bishop Saias. Be well. ...Thank you for everything.

@Battle 
Colho: Look alive, lads! Seems some fresh game 'ave wandered our way! Keep quiet an' move in close, then do 'em in. Whatever valuables they got, we all split equally. ...What? Oh, don't tell me you lot are worried about what Perne will say! Look, I'll take care of Perne myself. He won't be a problem no more. The rest of you, while you're dealin' with those travelers, go after the villages an' take anything worth carryin'!

Mareeta: What's all that noise? What's wrong?
Woman: The villages 'round here are bein' raided by bandits, that's what! Everyone's scared to death that they'll come here next!
Mareeta: Are they the local bandit group I've heard the villagers mention?
Woman: No, no, no—that's the Dandelion yer thinkin' of, an' they would never stoop to plunderin' a village like this! Matter of fact, they've even helped us when we needed it! Can't be the Dandelion—I'd bet me life on it! It must be them rough types that turned up here not too long ago...
Mareeta: Well, whoever they are, you don't need to worry. I'll protect every last one of you!
Woman: What in blazes are you thinkin'?! You... look an awful lot like me daughter, y'know. A pretty little thing like you can't expect to go toe-to-toe with bandits!
Mareeta: No—I'm a swordswoman, a Myrmidon, like my mother before me! I'm the daughter of Eyvel of Fiana! No mere bandit could defeat me!

Tina: Salem? Er, sir?
Salem: Oh, Tina. What can I do for you?
Tina: I brought you a midnight snack! What with it being so cold out, I figured you could use a nice, hot meal!
Salem: That's very kind of you, Tina, but it gets dangerous out here at night. I don't want you getting hurt. You should stay inside and get your rest. Ladies need their beauty sleep, or so I'm told.
Tina: Aw, you're no fun...
Salem: ...Wait. You're worried about your sister, aren't you? Is that what's keeping you awake? You said her name was Safy, right? Well, you needn't worry one moment longer. You will see her again—I'll make sure of that. Once my wounds have healed, I'll help you find her.
Tina: D-Do you mean it?! Oh, thank you, Salem! You're just the best! Well, I'll get out of your hair—how DO you get your hair like that, anyway?—and let you get back to lookout or whatever. Nighty-night, Salem! ...You better not forget your promise!

Dryas: Dawn is breaking, Prince Leif! Our troops can see clearly once more!

@Recruit-Battle
Salem: Begone from our forest, invaders!

Salem: Perne... I don't have any regrets...

Salem: Is that so...? You're just letting me go? Hmm... What to make of you people?

@Boss 
Colho: Aw, hell! We blundered into a bunch of soldiers!

Colho: Argggh! You... rotten...

Colho: Dammit! I'll remember this!

@End
Dryas: This seems to be the bandits' hideout, Prince Leif. The night is still young. I advise that we seize this opportunity to purge Tarrah's borders of these vermin.
Leif: I've no objections, but what of our troops? Aren't the men exhausted?
Dryas: I'm afraid so. Between the long march from Fort Dandrum and the skirmish here, our forces have little strength left. At most, we could only spare a small strike team of five soldiers to accompany you. The decision is yours, milord.
Leif: ...I'll do it. If we rout these bandits once and for all, the villagers here will finally be able to breathe easy.
Mareeta: L-Leif?! Little Lord, is that you?
Leif: ...Mareeta?! Mareeta, it really is you! How... How did you wind up here?
Mareeta: I'm just as surprised as you are! I never expected I'd see you and everyone from Fiana again so soon! Hah... I'm halfway convinced this is just a dream.
Leif: Mareeta, I... I beg your forgiveness for what happened to your mother. It was my fault that the Commander... that she...
Mareeta: If what happened is anyone's fault, it's mine. I was... I was inexperienced, and weak, and... and I couldn't overcome the power of that sword. I didn't have the discipline to resist it...
Leif: ...Mareeta, this I swear to you: I'll get the Commander back, whatever it takes!
Mareeta: You mean WE! We'll get Mother back together! Please, Leif, I want to be a part of this! I'll be stronger than I was before! You must let me join you!
Leif: Of course I'll have you! Though as much as it pains me, it's not feasible for our army to return to Manster with things the way they are right now... But someday, we'll be able to go back for the Commander. You can count on that. And when that day comes, there's no force in all the heavens that can keep the two of us from getting her back!
Mareeta: Couldn't have said it better myself, Little Lord!
/***EOF***/
@Opening 
His mind consumed by regret, Leif managed to escape Munster. He was joined by several members of the Magi, who pledged themselves to his service. Yet there was no time to celebrate: an enormous price had been placed on Leif's head, and countless bounty hunters were determined to claim it. What's more, the Knights of Munster had doggedly pursued Leif, and their forces were growing dangerously close...

@Intro 
August: Prince Leif, the Knights of Munster will catch up with us before long.
Leif: What should I do?
August: There are two options: first, you could flee through the mountain range to the west, and lose the knights in the rocky terrain. Second, you could continue south and seek refuge in Castle Meath. In either case, it will be necessary to petition Thracia for aid immediately.
Leif: A-Ask Thracia for aid?! That's absurd! Those damnable cowards took everything from me: my kingdom, my mother, my father... I'll not come crawling to them with cup in hand!
August: Do you expect to fight off the Knights of Munster with the strength of your pride alone? We are not fighting to satisfy your own sense of vengeance, my prince—we fight to liberate North Thracia from the tyranny of the Empire. You yourself said that there was "no hardship you would be unwilling to endure" to accomplish this. Did you think the only kind of hardship in this war would be from battle?
Leif: ...Even supposing I did agree, what makes you think we can trust Thracia? They're allies of the Empire!
August: And if foreign invaders amass at their borders, they'll respond with force all the same. I imagine the retaliation from General Hannibal of Meath would be especially great. He's a famed military leader that the people revere as the "Shield of Thracia." Between us and Raydrik's men, who do you think he would help?
Leif: ...I understand. We'll take refuge in Castle Meath, and head for Tarrah afterward.
August: You want to make for Tarrah...? As in, the city refusing to take part in child hunts? The same city being besieged by the Imperial Army for their rebellion? Going there with the small force we have now is certain death. Does my prince wish an early grave?
Leif: Tarrah is... my home away from home, you could say. The Duke of Tarrah sheltered me for years and was killed by the Empire for it. I have many friends there, August. I won't abandon them now!
August: ...Very well, but let's discuss this later. Right now, focus on our escape!

@Battle 
Shiva: ...What's all the ruckus?
Mercenary: Couple rebels in Munster kicked the hornet's nest. I hear the ringleader is a young'un named Leif, a Leonster prince with a price on 'is head to match. The boy's got stones, all right. Almost seems like a shame to kill 'im, but coin is coin. He's comin' our way already—haven't had a bounty this convenient in a long while.
Shiva: Hmm...

Soldier: Welcome back, General Hannibal.
Hannibal: I see our dungeon is considerably more full than when I departed. What, pray tell, happened while I was away?
Soldier: A group of suspicious characters were making their way down the mountains near here, so we saw fit to arrest them. I reckon they're bandits from the eastern frontier.
Hannibal: Hmm... What have they to say for themselves?
Soldier: "We're just villagers!" and other obvious tripe. What kind of villagers trek through the Thracian mountains? They must be up to something—otherwise, why lie?
Hannibal: Understood. I'll go have a word with the prisoners myself. In the meantime, there's some sort of commotion over in Munster. Raydrik may be up to something... Let's not give the Twofold Traitor any openings, eh?
Soldier: Hah! Of course, milord.

Soldier: "We're just villagers!" and other obvious tripe. What kind of villagers trek through the Thracian mountains? They must be up to something—otherwise, why lie? What's more, we saw what looked like a knight among them, but the man escaped. We've assembled search parties to find him.
Hannibal: Understood. I'll go have a word with the prisoners myself. In the meantime, there's some sort of commotion over in Munster. Raydrik may be up to something... Let's not give the Twofold Traitor any openings, eh?
Soldier: Hah! Of course, milord.
Finn: I must reach Lord Leif at once... Ah, I pray that he's still safe...

Finn: I cannot allow myself to be delayed any longer. Sister, please make your way back to Tarrah.
Safy: Am I that much of a burden to you, Sir Finn?
Finn: Not at all. Your presence has been most heartening—but where I go, I'm not certain I could protect you.
Safy: When I left Tarrah, I swore to Saint Heim that, for those willing to defend the city, there was nothing I wouldn't do. If I can help Lord Leif—and in so doing, help Tarrah—then I must. We are both bound by duty, Sir Finn. Allow me to uphold my own oath.
Finn: ...I understand, Sister. Let's get moving before we lose any more daylight.

Raydrik: The rebels have a head start, but they're only on foot. Aizenau, chase them down with your knights and eliminate them. Don't allow them to set even one foot on Castle Meath's soil.
Aizenau: Aye, milord, but... Thracia is our sworn ally. Why would the rebels head to Castle Meath?
Raydrik: Oh, please... Thracia and the Empire can mix no better than oil and water. We may be allies, but we're certainly not friends. If the rebels have any sense, they'll use that to their advantage.
Aizenau: Ah... I see.
Raydrik: Perhaps I'm overestimating them, but I'll not be made a fool of twice. Still, we can't overplay our hand: Hannibal's elite knights, the Panzerritter, lie in wait inside the castle. Attacking them would be tantamount to a declaration of war. If they take the field, you must not lay a hand on them, no matter what!
Aizenau: Aye, milord!

Hannibal: The Knights of Munster dare to cross the border?! Raydrik, do you hold me in such contempt as to attack so brazenly?! Men of the Panzerritter, sortie and engage the knights! We'll show them the wrath of Meath!

Raydrik: H-Hannibal himself has taken the field?! Of all the times for that doddering fool to show his face... All knights, fall back! Retreat to Munster!

@Battle-Talk 
%Leif,Finn
Finn: Lord Leif! You're all right!
Leif: I'm sorry to have worried you, Finn.
Finn: Worried? Of... Of course not! I never doubted you'd be able to keep yourself safe. I just... didn't expect we'd meet again so soon.
Leif: You can thank the Magi for that.
Finn: Magi...? I assumed your retinue to be made up of common sellswords and former knights... Who are they, then?
Leif: They're a group of rebels from up north. They've pledged to serve me until the day that Munster stands free.
Finn: Their loyalty to you is most important above all. If they've promised you as much, their personal details are none of my concern. Though now that I get a look at everyone... I don't see Eyvel among them. Milord, is she...?
Leif: The Commander is still in Munster... She... She was turned to stone by the fell magic of a Loptian bishop. There's... nothing I can do for her now...
Finn: Gods' breath! Th-That can't be...! Lord Leif... I'm sorry. I... I don't know what to say...
Leif: You've nothing to apologize for, Finn. As for the Commander... Nothing will stop me from getting her back. Between the two of us, we're sure to find a way to reverse what's been done to her! So, Finn... I'm giving you an order: don't die. I want you there with me, head held high, on the day we take back Munster!
Finn: Gladly, milord! On my honor, never again shall you and I be parted! I'll be at your side, Brave Lance in hand, until the very end!
Leif: Thank you, Finn... ...Ahem. Now, where has the rest of our former group gone?
Finn: They were captured by General Hannibal's Panzerritter, and imprisoned in Castle Meath. I... considered rescuing them, but my duty to you comes first, so I set out without them.
Leif: Then our road leads to Meath regardless. Very well... Finn, let's head for the castle and see to their release. With our forces bolstered, we can make our way to Tahra. ...You've missed the city as well, haven't you? I can tell.
Finn: Ah... I have, milord.

@Recruit-Talk 
%Safy,Shiva
Safy: Hm? Oh, you're...
Shiva: Ah, Sister... It's been a while.
Safy: Why are you doing this? I know you're not a bad person.
Shiva: This is the job. I'm a sellsword—and frankly, the details are no business of yours. ...Time for you to leave, Sister. I'm trouble to be around.
Safy: I'm not going anywhere.
Shiva: ...You really willing to risk everything for that little boy?
Safy: If it came to that, I would give my life to protect Prince Leif, yes.
Shiva: ……
Safy: Losing Prince Leif, losing what he represents, would be an irreplaceable loss to the entire Thracian Peninsula. If I needed to give my life to save his, it would only be right to do so.
Shiva: Hmph... You're quite the fool, Sister. ...Well, all the better. I can appreciate that kind of naïve innocence.
Safy: Hm? Will you... agree to aid the prince, then?
Shiva: Ah, this is getting absurd... But yes, I suppose I will. Just one thing: don't talk so lightly about throwing your life away. There's nothing more loathsome than people rushing toward their own death.
Safy: I apologize... I'll be mindful of that.
Shiva: Can I ask you something, though? What is it that YOU want? What is it that brightens your day, that brings you laughter?
Safy: I suppose that I want to see everyone around me be happy. When they laugh, when they feel joy, I share in it.
Shiva: I see... Well, I already said you were quite the fool. ...You know, I don't think I even know your name. I'm Shiva of Savan, by the way. What do you go by?
Safy: Safy. I'm Safy of Tarrah.

@Visit 
Man: You’re going to Tarrah? Then take this antidote. If you ever get hit by poison, just rub this on the wound and it’ll go away just like that. I’ve heard the rogues in the west use poisoned weapons. You’ll be glad you took this antidote along.

Man: P-Please, I just couldn’t resist…don’t take me away… Huh? You’re not the castle guards? Oh… Just forget what I said, then. Here, I’ll give you this to keep your mouth shut.

Old woman: If you have the time, why don’t you visit the arena to the south? If you fight and win, you’ll get rewarded with cash, and it’s a good way to test your skills. Oh, but you’ll die if you lose, so don’t get carried away. You must never overdo anything. If you do decide to go, then take this. I’m sure it’ll be of some use.

@Boss 
Aizenau: You stubborn idiots think you can defeat me?

Aizenau: What madness... I can't... believe... they...

@End 
Hannibal: Clearly, your group wanted to flee Munster, but I would hear your reasons.
Leif: Most of us lived in a village on the eastern shore. I was... captured while freeing several children from an Imperial prison. The Magi, the local resistance, later rescued me, and we fled the province together.
Hannibal: Hmm... For one so young, you don't seem to bend easily. What's your name, lad?
Leif: Lugh Faris, at your service, General Hannibal.
Hannibal: Hmm... You share... quite the resemblance...
Leif: Resemblance? What do you mean, General...?
Hannibal: It's... nothing you need concern yourself with. More importantly, what do you plan to do now that you're free of Munster?
Leif: We'll head to Tarrah to break the siege on the city. I've many friends there in need of help.
Hannibal: Are you planning a route through the central mountains?
Leif: That was my intent, yes. As rebels, we obviously can't risk crossing through Imperial territory.
Hannibal: Is that so? Then be warned: many bandits make their home there. Don't let your guard down.

Leif: Thank you, General. Now, would you release the men you captured earlier? They're good friends of mine.
Hannibal: Ah, of course. Men, bring the prisoners here, on the double!
Soldier: Yes, General!

Halvan: Prince Leif! Sheesh, some help I turned out to be, huh? Might as well have stayed in Fiana, for all the good I did...
Osian: Damned Thracians! Next time I see you, you'll pay for what you've done!
Ronan: I'm awful sorry, Prince Leif... I guess I'm just not very strong...

Hannibal: Good folk, let me introduce you to Carrion. There are many perils in the central mountains—not the least of which is a massive hunt for bandits around Mount Violdrake. If you're mistaken for these bandits, you could very well lose your lives over it. Carrion here will see that you cross the mountains safely.
Carrion: Of course, sire. They can count on me!
Leif: General, there's no need to reassign your man. We don't need to go as far into the mountains as Mount Violdrake. I'm sure there's a detour we can find—
Carrion: Nonsense! I'd be honored to join you!
Leif: ...If you insist, I certainly would appreciate your help.
Carrion: Think nothing of it!
Hannibal: Sir Lugh, you'd best be setting out. It'll be dark before long.
Leif: Of course. Many thanks for your help, General Hannibal. I won't forget the kindness you've done us!

Coirpre: Good day, sir!
Leif: Oh, you were one of the children imprisoned at Kelves' Gate... What are you doing here?
Coirpre: General Hannibal is my lord father, you see. On the off chance we met again, I prepared you a token of my gratitude. Here you are. It's a very powerful staff imbued with Warp magic.
Leif: Thank you! This is most generous...!
Hannibal: Sir Lugh, you'd best be setting out. It'll be dark before long.
Leif: Of course. Many thanks for your help, General Hannibal. I won't forget the kindness you've done us!
/***EOF***/
@Opening 
Putting down the bandit uprising at Mount Violdrake, Leif's army now sought to join forces with the remnants of Leonster's nobility. Leif set a course for General Hannibal's mountain villa, where the deposed nobles now lived in hiding...

@Intro 
Travant: Is this the area, Merlock?
Merlock: That's correct, sire.
Travant: Hmph... So these bandits are harassing Thracian citizens? Even for your average brigand, that's stupid.
Altena: Exceptionally stupid. Even so, my lord father, you didn't need to come here in person for such a trifle.
Travant: And what kind of king would I be if I wasn't aware of all the matters that trouble my realm, trifling or no? Besides, it's been too long since you and I had an outing of our own, Altena.
Altena: Indeed, Father. I'm glad we were able to spend time together.
Travant: Shame that Arion couldn't join us. I wanted him to come along, but he didn't want the capital to be left unattended in our absence.
Altena: He's merely taking after your example, Father.
Travant: Mm. When I was his age, I'd already taken the throne. Arion needs to keep at it if he wants to outpace me.
Altena: He's doing his best—and so am I. I want only to be a pillar of strength for our family, my lord father.
Travant: Good. The two of you are Thracia's future. The North abounds with crops, and the mountains of the South hide much in the way of resources and riches. An independent Thracia will need both, not just one or the other. To have a single, united Thracia... My fondest wish is to return this land to what it was in the days of Dáinn and Njorun. ...Even if it damns me to the deepest pit of Hell.
Altena: ...Father?
Travant: Altena…
Altena: Yes?
Travant: ...The wind's changing on us. Let's head back and leave this one to Merlock.
Altena: As you wish, my lord father.
Travant: You good to handle this on your own, Merlock?
Merlock: Hah! You insult me by asking, sire!
Travant: All right, then I'm entrusting you with the rest of our soldiers. I won't accept any excuses—wipe out every last bandit. Show them what it's like to have made an enemy of Thracia!
Merlock: Leave everything to me, milord!

Selphina: My lord father! It's the Thracian army! T-They're flooding in from the south!
Dryas: So Travant has finally noticed us... A pox on it all! With Glade in Tarrah, there's no one here with any experience in battle...
Selphina: Then leave it to me. I'll draw their attention and buy everyone time to escape.
Dryas: Wait! General Hannibal sent word ahead. According to him, Prince Leif and a coalition of warriors from Fiana and Munster are already en route. We have to hold out until they get here...
Selphina: Understood. If you've no objections, I'll establish a defensive perimeter. Cain! Alva! Robert! We're moving out! Follow me!

August: The villa is just ahead, Prince Leif.
Leif: Is something amiss? Those soldiers moving about, are they Duke Dryas' troops?
August: Hm? Blast...! Take a closer look at their armor, Prince Leif—that's the Thracian army!
Leif: Wh-What?! Wasn't this villa supposed to be under the protection of General Hannibal?
August: Perhaps Thracia finally learned of their presence, or perhaps General Hannibal tipped them off...
Leif: I'll not hear it, August! General Hannibal is a man of honor—he'd not do such a thing!
August: ...Be that as it may, we must move to rescue them immediately! If that villa falls, any hope of liberating Thracia or rebuilding Leonster falls with it!

@Battle-Talk 
%Leif,Selphina
Selphina: Prince Leif! Oh, it's been too long, milord! It's me, Selphina!
Leif: Selphina, in the flesh! Can it really be you?
Selphina: Prince Leif... This halfway feels like a dream... When I last saw you, milord, you were but a child, a toddler who fell asleep at my knees... You've grown into such a fine young man...
Leif: Oh, Selphina, it's enough to make me cry... I had thought you and Duke Dryas were killed trying to protect me. I never imagined I'd be able to see you again. I... never knew my mother or sister. The kinship of family was the one thing my retainers were never able to fetch for me. I saw Lachesis as a sort of mother, and you as the older sister I was never able to meet. Not that I ever showed you much gratitude for it. I remember being quite the little terror...
Selphina: Oh, it would be terribly improper to ever say such a thing of the prince of Leonster. I'll have to take you at your word, milord. I... take it that Lady Lachesis still has yet to return?
Leif: I'm afraid so... She... never made it back from her excursion to Isaach.
Selphina: I see... Well, don't give up hope. It's still possible that she's alive somewhere—alive and happy. I'm sure you'll find her someday, Prince Leif. After all, the two of us were able to meet again, were we not?

%Finn,Selphina 
Selphina: Sir Finn! It's been too long.
Finn: Hold! Are you friend or enemy?
Selphina: Have you forgotten me already, Sir Finn? It's Selphina!
Finn: Selphina? Duke Dryas' daughter?!
Selphina: The very same.
Finn: You don't say... When last we met, you still wore your hair in braids...
Selphina: I can only hope I'm more of a proper woman now than I was a decade past. Glade and I have since been wed, you see.
Finn: Glade?! That old dog! How's he been? Ah, we've much catching up to do—you must take me to him at once!
Selphina: Your reunion will have to wait a little longer, I'm afraid. He's away in Tarrah, trying to aid the city's defenders.
Finn: A pity... Still, if duty calls, I suppose it can't be helped.
Selphina: Hmph. You can barely hide your excitement for seeing my husband, but you can't scrape together two words for my benefit. I see you haven't changed much—no regard for the feelings of women.
Finn: Th-That's uncalled for! I meant nothing by it...
Selphina: Oh? But I still remember how you abandoned Lady Lachesis—left her to go off on her own. The sorrow was plain as day upon her face, but you let her walk away.
Finn: I... I'm not sure what you mean...
Selphina: No, I know you understand, Sir Finn—but you pretend not to!
Finn: ...Selphina, we've just met again for the first time in a decade. There's no need to get into this now.
Selphina: Ah... I apologize. You've the right of it. It was more than rude of me to ambush you like that after such a long absence...
Finn: No, I... I understand. We can... talk about it later. For now, the battlefield calls.
Selphina: ...Of course, Sir Finn.

%Carrion,Selphina 
Carrion: Lady Selphina, I made it back!
Selphina: Oh, my dear Carrion! Thank you for all that you've done.
Carrion: Think nothing of it, milady. Would that I could've done more... Ah, I must double my training if I'm to become as strong a knight as Sir Glade sometime in my natural life! I want only to aid Prince Leif, but all I've learned in his service so far is just how powerless I truly am...
Selphina: Don't let your impatience cloud your judgment. You won't be of any use to him dead. Hmm... The time to grant you your inheritance may have come more quickly than I'd thought.
Carrion: Inheritance? Th-This is... a fine blade, milady, but where—
Selphina: Your mother entrusted this to me. It's known as the Elite Sword. She bade me give it to you when you had grown into a worthy knight.
Carrion: M-Mother?!
Selphina: She passed from this world far too young, taken by illness. A tragedy if ever there was one, that... This very blade was a favorite of your father's, and he wielded it right up until the day he died honorably in battle.
Carrion: F-Father's own blade... that he wielded in service of House Leonster...!
Selphina: This is your birthright, Carrion—use it with great care.
Carrion: Y-Yes, I will! Thank you, Lady Selphina!

@Battle 
Merlock: What?! The bandits have yet to fall? Signal the Armored Lances to charge!

Merlock: What have you idiots been doing?! All forces, move to engage the bandits! I want them dead, even if you have to throw yourselves on their swords!

@Boss 
Merlock: Y-You're no common bandit! What's going on here?!
Merlock: F-Forgive me, King Travant, Your Majesty...

@Battle 
August: Prince Leif, I've dire news! I... I regret to report that the villa... has fallen.
Leif: Come again?! Th-Then... Duke Dryas...
August: All that remained of Leonster's nobility had taken refuge here... Now, they have joined their kingdom in oblivion. Without them, I'm afraid there is... no longer any hope of reconstituting Leonster...

@End 
Leif: Dryas!
Dryas: Prince Leif...! To be able to see you, safe and healthy, after all these years... You've... grown into quite the splendid young man.
Leif: Whatever I've accomplished, I owe to you and Finn. Without your sacrifices, I never could've come as far as I have...
Dryas: ...Oh, this is most unbecoming! Confound it... I... I, ah... I suppose I've become easier to move to tears in my age.
Leif: ...Duke Dryas, I think you've earned— Ah! Y-Your arm! Don't tell me you...
Dryas: Oh, this? Bah! It's but a trifle. I... grew careless during the battle for Ulster. The disgrace is mine alone to bear.
Leif: At Ulster? Then... it was for the sake of ensuring my escape... Dammit! Is that what it always comes down to?! How many more people have to sacrifice themselves just to save me? How many?! Even you, Dryas... All for me...
Dryas: Hah! Don't let this, of all things, weigh heavily upon your heart, Prince Leif. Even supposing I wasn't injured, an old dotard like me would hardly be of any use to you now. Let us not allow our minds to linger on past wounds—we've much work to do yet. I understand you wish to aid Tarrah. I mean to do the same, but we've precious little time to act. I've sent Glade ahead to the city. We've gotten word back from him, and he reports that the Empire means to mount an all-out assault against Tarrah perilously soon. With you and your forces here, every brave soul in Thracia now stands assembled beneath the banner of Njorun. The reborn kingdom of Leonster must be unleashed upon the front lines—starting with the Thracian soldiers amassed outside!
August: Regarding that... the Thracian troops seem to have ceased attacking. Most curious...
Leif: Outright suspicious, even.
Dryas: I'll start coming up with a plan. Give me a moment to get a better look at this strange state of affairs, Prince Leif.
Dryas: Hmm... Leif's man was right. They have indeed called off their attack... But why? ...Who in blazes is that? That Dracoknight—a woman, by the look of it—what's she saying to the Thracian troops? Some kind of declaration?
Altena: All soldiers of Thracia, heed me! This is your princess, Altena! I bring word from General Hannibal himself! The men in that villa are not bandits—they're a mercenary unit the General has stationed here to PROTECT this area from bandits! Sheathe your swords! Withdraw at once!
/***EOF***/
@Opening 
Barely escaping the burning of Castle Leonster with his life, the young Prince Leif was looked after by Finn, his knight and retainer. Together with Nanna, a young noblewoman under Finn's care, the trio fled pursuers sent by the conquerors of North Thracia: the Grannvale Empire, which lay to the west.

Yet Finn proved stronger than those who hunted them, and the three made their way to the cities of Ulster and Tarrah, posing as common vagrants. Eventually, they drifted into Fiana, a small village on Thracia's eastern coast. Fiana was an independent community with its own militia, the Freeblades of Fiana, led by the swordswoman Eyvel. Eyvel welcomed Leif's group as if they were her own kin. Under her watchful eye, the deposed prince spent his childhood in Fiana, growing into maturity alongside youths of common birth. Now, in year 776 of the Grannvale calendar...

@Intro 
Raydrik: Have you found that whelp of a prince yet?
Weissman: Regretfully not, milord. The men have searched the village top to bottom, but came up with nothing.
Raydrik: Why is such a simple task taking you so long? There's little doubt that the heir to House Leonster is hiding here. You've been too gentle with these villagers—give them ample motivation to talk.
Weissman: We are of the same mind, milord—I've already ordered the men to do as much. Yet the townsfolk claim the prince isn't here. According to them, he left with the Freeblades to fend off a pirate raid on a nearby village.
Raydrik: Freeblades? What nonsense is that?
Weissman: They're the local militia, sire. As I understand it, this village was once home to a group of brigands—rather savage ones, at that. About a decade ago, they were routed by Eyvel, a wandering sellsword. She claimed the village as her own and founded the Freeblades to protect the region from future attacks. She's supposedly quite a wonder with a sword...
Raydrik: Hmm... She may be a problem.
Weissman: You have nothing to fear, milord: we've taken Eyvel's daughter captive. What's more, we also captured the daughter of Finn, the very knight guarding the prince's life. With the leverage we have over them, they'll have no choice but to surrender.
Raydrik: Hmph. I admit, you have your uses, Weissman. The women will accompany me back to Munster. You'll remain here and prepare for when these upstart rebels return. See that the young Leonster pup is put in chains befitting a stray mutt.
Weissman: Your trust in me is well placed, sire. Men, bring the girls here!
Raydrik: What's your name, lass?
Mareeta: Hmph…
Raydrik: Hah! A fighting spirit to match a pretty face. Now, let's have a look at the other one... Ah, you must be Finn's young ward. I hear your mother was royalty of House Nordion, is that right? You certainly don't lack for grace, despite living in this backwater hovel—holy blood doesn't run thin even in squalor, I see.
Nanna: ......
Raydrik: What a pleasant surprise the two of you make for. Weissman, I'll be departing for Munster now. Don't disappoint me.
Weissman: All shall be as you wish it, milord.

Eyvel: What's that commotion in the village? Something's rotten here...
Halvan: I'll scout ahead, Commander. Hold here a moment.
Halvan: Commander, Fiana is packed to the brim with Imperial troops! They... must have struck while we were away.
Osian: What? No way is the Empire gonna make a mess of our home! Commander, let's move in!
Halvan: Calm down, Osian. We'll get slaughtered if we just charge in blindly.
Osian: Yeah, Halvan, I'm sure the village will appreciate your patient attitude while everyone's being rounded up and jailed!
Eyvel: Peace, Osian. Halvan is right. Seems we've finally been noticed by the Empire. Looks like this is goodbye, Little Leif. I'm sorry. Finn, take him as far away from here as you can. Leave the soldiers to us.
Leif: No, Commander! Nanna is still in the village! I won't leave without her!
Eyvel: I'll get her back. Don't worry.
Leif: It's more than that, Commander... I won't run anymore. That's my decision to make.
Eyvel: ...Finn, you wanna weigh in here? You going to let the Little Lord throw himself into harm's way like this?
Finn: Lord Leif has seen the passing of 15 summers, by now. He's old enough to choose for himself—and as my liege, I will abide by his judgment.
Eyvel: Has it been that long already? Hmph, I suppose I let Little Leif come with us to fight off those pirates, myself... Guess I made up my own mind when I did that. If Finn's all right with it, so am I.
Osian: Then what's the hold-up? If we're done arguing, there's an invasion happening over that ridge!
Eyvel: All right, get ready to move in. But stay sharp: most foot-soldiers are just regular folk, forced into the Imperial Army against their will. If they surrender, just take their weapons and let them go. Are we clear?
Osian: But we can still bloody them until they surrender, right? I mean, if we can't put up a good fight ourselves, we'll be the ones surrendering.
Eyvel: Knock 'em around if you have to, sure, but don't overdo it. That means you, Osian.
Osian: Hey, c'mon, gimme some credit, Commander!
Eyvel: OK, enough chatter! Let's give the Empire a battle worthy of our names as Freeblades!

@Battle 
Tanya: Papa, the fighting's started already!
Dagdar: Ain't no good way to go about this damned battle... Don't matter how good Eyvel is, there's only one of her an' over a dozen of them. We need to hurry.

Marty: Oh, fer cryin' out loud! Not again...

@Battle-Talk 
%Eyvel,Dagdar
Eyvel: Dagdar?! You... came down to fight with us?
Dagdar: Eyvel! Does me heart good to see you in one piece! Listen, ya have any idea why the Empire would come all the way out here? It have anything to do with... the boy?
Eyvel: Yeah. The Little Lord, Leif, he's... he's not just some nobleman. He's the heir to House Leonster. I've been helping him hide from the Empire. I'm sorry... I shouldn't have kept it from you.
Dagdar: Mm, I figured as much. Well, no use worryin' about it now. Long as I get to cut down some of those Imperial dastards meself, we're even.
%Osian,Tanya
Osian: Tanya? What do you think you're doing here?
Tanya: What does it look like, Osian? I'm here to help you guys, any way I can!
Osian: "Help any way you can," huh? In that case, turn tail and march back home. That's the only way a kid like you could help—you'd just get in the way.
Tanya: You've got some nerve, Osian! You're just a kid yourself, you know! You want me gone, I'm gone—not all of us are as eager to throw ourselves into danger as you!

@Visit 
Old Woman: Those Imperial dogs took Dame Mareeta and Lady Nanna—just snatched 'em right up like they was cattle! You're not gonna let 'em get away with that, are you? If you're fixin' to fight the Empire, take this with you. This here ring's enchanted with some spell or another. But don't just wear it on your finger like some common bauble! You gotta actually [Use] it for it to do any good!

Old Woman: Y'all made it back! What a relief... But look, there's no Freeblades of Fiana without Fiana, right? So don't just stop with them pirates—drive the Empire from our village, too! ... Not to imply that I ain't grateful, a' course. Take this with you. Use it if you get scraped up. We don't have much in the way of medicine, but it's the least we can do after everythin' the Commander's done fer us.

Old Man: Weapons can be mighty expensive, can't they? Most folk here gotta make do by nicking supplies from Imperial troops. It's awful risky, but if you can capture an enemy alive, you get to help yourself to their stuff. Matter of fact, I got the drop on an Imperial soldier myself. Heard 'im snoring from three houses way, so I took me a souvenir! ... Not that it'll do me much good, though. Probably better off in your hands, I reckon. And hey, if you don't need it, you can just hawk it for somethin' you do need.

Patricia: Big brother! I've got something real special for you! You can use this to keep yourself safe, right?
Halvan: An... axe? Where in the world did you get such a fine weapon?
Patricia: Darnedest thing... I was walkin' past the lake up on the mountain, when this strange ol' crone just floated outta the water! She gave it to me, then vanished, quick as you can blink! I been keepin' it for you, and takin' real good care of it. Now go put it to use, an' make me proud!

Patricia: Hey, hey, have you seen my big brother, Halvan? He's got me awful scared... I hope he's all right...

Father: You pullin' your weight in the Freeblades, boy? Last thing Commander Eyvel needs is to babysit you.
Osian: We're risking life and limb to protect the village, and you're giving me a lecture? You've got a strange sense of gratitude, old man.
Father: Not even the Empire knockin' down our front door can stop that fool mouth of yours, I see. Well, no point in draggin' this out. Here. This is what you came for, right?
Osian: For once, you read my mind. When a fight breaks out, I just feel off without this axe at my side.
Father: Which don't explain why you forget it at home half the damn time!
Osian: Hey, I came here for the axe, not to get chewed out!
Father: If that's all you wanted, then get going! Go on, now! Don't keep the Commander waitin' on you!
Osian: You don't need to tell me twice!

Father: Where has that fool boy of mine gone off to in this fracas? I swear, my Osian's gonna get himself killed one of these days...

@Boss 
Weissman: Do you fools realize what you're doing?! If I die, so do the women we took!"

Weissman: D-Damn... You'll... love to regret this, all of you...

Weissman: Damn... Bested by a bunch of backwoods yokels. Well, I won't forget this!

@End 
^start 
Leif: Nanna! Mareeta! Where are you?! Please, answer me!
Eyvel: Little Nan, Mareeta... Raydrik must've taken 'em.
Leif: What?! That means... they were taken to Munster, right?
Eyvel: Yeah—as bargaining chips, in case Weissman couldn't finish the job. It's the sort of thing Raydrik would pull, allright.
Leif: Gods' breath... Commander, we have to give chase! The two of them are counting on us!
Eyvel: Now look here, Little Leif—
Leif: Commander, you yourself said I'm not a child anymore. Nanna and Mareeta were taken captive because of me—and I refuse to let anyone suffer in my place. I will never again let someone sacrifice their life in exchange for mine.
Eyvel: ...I understand. We leave at dawn, then. I won't lie, Little Lord: this is gonna get rough. Get some rest while you can.

Leif: Nanna! Mareeta! Where are you?! Please, answer me!
Man: L-Lord Leif! Gods' breath, are you a sight fer sore eyes! I... wish I had better news fer you. They came fer Lady Nanna, they did, and we couldn't do nuthin' to stop 'em!
Leif: Nanna? What happened to Nanna?
Man: The Empire took 'er, sure as you're standin' here. Mareeta tried to break her loose, but only got captured 'erself. They both wore chains, last I saw.
Leif: Where were they taken?
Man: Don't rightfully know, Lord Leif. One of them soldiers said somethin' about headin' back to Munster, but nuthin' more specific'n that.
Leif: Munster... Then that's where I'm headed, too. I'll bring everyone home: Nanna, Mareeta, and the Commander!
/***EOF***/
@Opening 
Leaving the forest behind them, the Liberation Army finally reached the southern gates of Leonster. Yet an arduous task awaited them: the gates stood atop high cliffs, and were defended by vast numbers of ballistae. It was painfully clear that seizing the gates would be anything but simple...

@Intro 
August: My prince, may I present your sovereign land: Castle Leonster is in sight. We're approaching from the rear gate, so the enemy shouldn't be expecting us.
Leif: I'm not sure it will be so easy, August. The cliffs to the east are impassable, and if we go around them and head west, the ballistae will have a clear shot at us. What are we to do?
August: Indeed... I admit, I didn't foresee the enemy preparing so many ballistae. Yet if we go about things too slowly, we'll lose the element of surprise, and enemy reinforcements will overwhelm us. Ah, this is most vexing...
Leif: Dorias, what would you suggest?
Dorias: At the very least, our goal is simple: our army won't be able to advance as long as those damned ballistae are there. As for how to eliminate them, we could either send in mages, or use aerial units to attack from above. Either way, we'll likely suffer a few losses. We need to prepare ourselves for that.
Leif: I understand, but keep thinking. There may yet be a better way.

Palman: General Amalda, how is it a fine soldier like you got stuck guarding the rear gate?
Amalda: Evidently, my comments touched a nerve with Marquess Gustav...
Palman: Still bickering about the child hunts, I take it?
Amalda: It's more than a simple row. Gustav is seizing children from the nearby villages despite having no order from the king to do so. It's obvious he's trying to curry favor with the Loptian Order—handing over innocent children like little presents. Could you forgive such a thing, if you were in my position?
Palman: Now, now, Lady Amalda. Just take a breath. I understand how you feel, but remember, the child hunts were instituted by Emperor Arvis himself. So sooner or later, regardless of how vocally you oppose it, all the local children will be seized and taken to Belhalla.
Amalda: But why?! Why is all this happening? I believed in Emperor Arvis, I longed to become a knight in his service... How did he go so wrong?

@Visit 
Elder: You're with the Leonster army, aren't you? Where's Lord Leif?

Elder: Ah, Lord Leif... Welcome home. The people of Leonster have long awaited this day...
Leif: You're the village elder, I take it? I can't imagine how your people must have suffered over these long years... I'm sorry for everything you've been through. But that all ends today. I'll personally be leading the Knights of Leonster into battle to recapture the castle. Believe in our victory! Leonster shall rise again!
Elder: Prince, there's something I must ask of you. Let us help you reach the castle. Please.
Leif: Help us...? You mean your people wish to fight?
Elder: Indeed. We'll not bear the abuses of the Empire for one moment longer. We always knew the day would come to liberate the motherland, and we've been stockpiling weapons in secret.
Dorias: With respect, Elder, there are numerous ballistae positioned in the castle grounds. Your poorly-armed militia will be easy pickings for them.
Elder: I know that. I don't expect any of us to make it back alive. All we could do is be the prince's shield, but we would do it gladly. We can attract the ballistae's attention, and lure them away from your forces. While we keep them busy, the prince can breach the—
Leif: Out of the question! What's the point of winning back my country if I sacrifice my people to do it?! I won't allow such a thing!
Elder: Lord Leif... Do you have any idea just how much pain we've endured over these past ten years? Marquess Gustav took our women. The Loptian Order took our children. The few who tried to resist were killed in the most brutal ways imaginable, and then their families were killed too—as an example. My prince, my sovereign lord... This is the only home we've ever known. Simple folk like us can't live without our home. So if it means regaining that home, we'll do whatever it takes. We offer you our lives, and we have no regrets.
Leif: Elder, sir...
August: Prince Leif... When a country falls to ruin, its people fall to ruin as well. For what life awaits those left behind without a home? They speak with the same tawdry devotion one would expect from a knight—and like a knight, they seem utterly resigned to die. Even after years of oppression, they're still consumed by this childish sentimentality. And if they're so set in their ways...
Leif: You... August, you mean to say I should accept their offer?!
August: I'm merely saying it's worth considering. You wanted "a better way" to seize the castle, did you not? This may very well be it.
Leif: ...Dorias, what say you?
Dorias: I can only imagine how the villagers must feel, but even so, I cannot condone this. Regardless, the choice is yours to make, Prince Leif. What is your command?

Man: Oh-ho, so you're attackin' Castle Leonster? Well, lemme bend yer ear for a second... See, it just so happens that I've cooked up a little scheme to get past the eastern gate. My boys can have that thing wide open in two shakes of a lamb's tail. So, how 'bout it? Feel like taking a shortcut? Won't be free, a' course. Nothin' is. But you pile up an even 20,000 gold in front of me an' we'll call it a deal. What, does it sound too expensive? Well, we ain't stupid. We'll be the ones putting our lives on the line. So... What's it gonna be?

Man: What kind of conqueror doesn't have a full wallet? Ugh, just see yourself out.

Guard: Been waitin' for ya. I heard the whole story from the boss. Well... Good luck, I guess.

@Boss 
Palman: You'll never reclaim your damn castle! Just give up!

Palman: Castle Friege... is so very far...

Palman: I can't live a soldier's life any longer... I suppose I'll return home...

@Recruit-Battle
Amalda: I... What in blazes am I doing...?

Amalda: Fitting... A life lived steeped in blood can only end with more blood...

Amalda: Am I doomed to watch this nightmare continue...?

@End 
Leif: We've finally seized the castle gates, but we don't know what awaits us inside... August, let's hear the intelligence you've gathered.
August: Ahem... The castle's commander is a man named Gustav, a close associate of King Bloom. He is... a man of many vices.
Leif: Marquess Gustav... For the past decade, he's ruled Leonster with an iron fist.
August: Frankly, he's a second-rate commander, but he makes up for it by lavishing his troops with expensive equipment.
Leif: Anything else we should be aware of?
August: Well, the real problem will be General Xavier. His skills on the battlefield are quite renowned, and he commands a battalion of heavily-armored knights.
Dorias: Xavier?! Ngh... A thousand deaths won't be enough for that traitor!
Leif: I... take it you know him, Dorias?
Dorias: Hah... As ashamed as I am to admit it, Xavier was once an esteemed general of Leonster. He was known for his sense of justice, and had everyone's utmost trust. But the instant Leonster fell, he betrayed us, and defected to the invaders! The shameless cur... I cannot forgive him! No force in all the heavens will keep my blade from his throat!
Elder: It's not what you think, Duke Dorias!
Dorias: You're... The village elder? What are you talking about? Do you mean to protect that damnable turncoat?!
Elder: General Xavier did everything for our sake. He joined the invaders out of necessity, to help guarantee our safety. Leonster was in chaos after being defeated, and we common folk were abandoned—left to the enemy's mercy. The general showed us pity, and traded his own honor for our lives. Had he not intervened, myself and all the other villagers wouldn't be alive today.
Dorias: Is this true?! No, it can't be! The prince has returned, yet he still serves the Empire! If he and his men would just turn against them, the castle would be as good as ours!
Elder: Bah, would that things were that simple... You see, the general has eight adjutants—they're as close as kin, and they've shouldered life's burdens together. The wives and children of these eight adjutants are being held hostage inside the castle. And despite being their superior, the general hasn't the heart to act without the consent of his men. Say what you will, but he cares deeply for their well-being...
Leif: Then our plan is obvious! If we rescue the hostages, the general and his men will be freed of their servitude!
Elder: You... think it will be that easy?
Leif: He deserves an apology for everything he's been through... As the last living heir to House Leonster, I owe him that much!
/***EOF***/
@Intro 
Kempf: Bishop Oltof, listen closely: these attackers are none other than the motley survivors of House Leonster. They seem to be led by Leif, the rebel prince who caused a stir when he escaped from the dungeons of Castle Munster. This has escalated beyond a mere border skirmish. I must ride for Belhalla at once and alert the Imperial Army's high command. Not to imply that this relieves you of your duties, of course. I still have orders for you and your men. Your platoon is to barricade itself inside this wing of the fortress, and stall the rebels for as long as possible. Buy me time.
Oltof: B-But General, the enemy has already breached the fort's interior! My men and I cannot possibly withstand a prolonged siege!
Kempf: Nonsense! You still have one final means of defense: the balistrariae.
Oltof: ...You want us to huddle behind those gaps in the walls and take potshots at the invaders?! Y-You're asking us to die...!
Kempf: No, I'm ordering you to kill the invaders before they kill you. There's a tremendous difference. Mind you, no part of my orders require you to die. In fact, if you die, you have only yourself to blame. Oh, and I'm not "asking" anything. You used that word, not I. These are orders.
Oltof: I... understand. If... If this is an order, I have no choice in the matter.
Kempf: That's the first smart thing you've said, Bishop. Take your own advice and follow my orders—otherwise, you'll be keeping Olwen company in the dungeon. Ah, speaking of which, you mustn't forget to dispose of the prisoners. They'll only cause trouble if they manage to survive all this.
Oltof: ...As you wish, General.
Kempf: Don't look so glum, Bishop. If you should happen to die here, you can rest knowing your death served a purpose.
Oltof: ……

Boy: Y-Yer an Imperial soldier...! You low-down, no-good wench! All you do is go around spreadin' misery to other folk! An' now yer here to kill us, ain'tcha?!
Olwen: No, that's... that's not why I'm here! I was arrested! Wh-What are you kids doing here?!
Girl: S-Soldiers were raidin' our village... They took me an' brought me here, even when I kicked an' screamed...! Wh-What's gonna happen to us...?
Boy: Yer talkin' like they ain't already decided what to do with us! They're gonna sacrifice us to Loptous! They're gonna send us to Belhalla an' kill every last one of us... I know cuz my sister got taken there an' she never came back!
Girl: No! P-Please don't take us away! I jus' wanna go back home... I jus' wanna see Mama and Papa again...!
Olwen: It can't be... Has the Empire really been conducting child hunts? I'd heard rumors, but... I was sure it was just rebel propaganda. I never even considered that it could be true... For the Empire to be doing something so heinous... This is inexcusable! I believed in the Empire, I trusted in House Friege... and this is what they've been doing all along?!
Girl: Please, ma'am, help us! Take us back home!
Olwen: ...Everything's going to be all right. You don't have to worry anymore, little one. They won't lay a finger on you ever again. On my honor, I'll protect each and every one of you! Even if it costs me my life...!

@Battle 
Fred: Lady Olwen! Are you down here?! Please, say something!
Olwen: Fred?! You came back for me... I'm over here! And children have been locked up in here, too! But Kempf still has men stationed here! Don't get careless!

Oltof: Hmph! Orders be damned, I'll not just sit here and wait to die! Men! Can all of you truly go along with this, knowing what I was told by the General? I must be off. I'll report how dire our situation is to the General—or to whatever commanding officer still remains here.
Soldier: If that's the case, Bishop, perhaps I—
Oltof: No, I'll go! It has to be me, you understand? I entrust you with this unit's command. The rest is in your hands.
Soldier: ……

@Recruit-Talk 
%Leif,Olwen
Leif: I can see you protected those children during the battle... May I ask who you are?
Olwen: I would ask the same of you, sir.
Leif: ...My name is Leif, and I command this army.
Olwen: Leif?! So you're Prince Leif of House Leonster, are you not? I... I am Olwen, Mage Knight of House Friege, at your service.
Leif: House Friege, you say? Then... why did you—
Olwen: Frankly, I'm not sure where to begin. It's quite the long story... I've... come to learn a number of terrible truths in a very short time, and my mind is in disarray... Prince Leif, if you can forgive my choice of allegiance, I would ask to stay in your company for a time. Just while I come to terms with what I've learned, I assure you.
Leif: Your past is of no issue to me. However, I must consult my advisors, August and Dryas, on this matter. You'll have to wait until this battle is over before I can render judgment on your request.
Olwen: Of course. It was unreasonable of me to ask such a thing of you so suddenly... I apologize.

@Fred,Olwen 
Fred: Lady Olwen!
Olwen: Fred! Thank you... You've saved me from a fate most terrible.
Fred: Think nothing of it, milady. I'm just glad you're safe. Now, we must move quickly if we're to escape... Hm? What's come over you? You're white as a sheet!
Olwen: Fred… What have we really been fighting for?
Fred: What do you mean, milady?
Olwen: What exactly have I accomplished? How many children have been stolen from their families under my watch? How many caravans of children have I helped send to Belhalla? How many... how many sacrifices to Loptous have I made possible?
Fred: Lady Olwen…
Olwen: Never before have I had such... doubts... about what I've done. I believed that as long as I followed my brother, there could be no questioning the righteousness of my path. But now... Now I'm as blind as a newborn! I can't be certain of anything! I have nothing to believe in! I... I don't know what to do...
Fred: ...Lady Olwen, I can tell you only one thing for certain: your place isn't with the Empire and its army. Not anymore. But perhaps there could be a place for us in Prince Leif's army.
Olwen: Join Prince Leif?! H-He's the enemy! He always has been!
Fred: ...I met Prince Leif, albeit briefly. Just from what little I saw, his values are far more in line with ours than the Empire's are. Whatever it is you've lost sight of, Lady Olwen, we can find it again in his army!
Olwen: ...If you're that convinced of Prince Leif's honor, Fred, then that's where we'll go.

@Battle-Talk 
%Fred,Olwen 
Olwen: Fred, I've decided to join these people. I'm a defector—you're no longer bound to me by military code. You're free to do as you please...
Fred: Not another word, Lady Olwen! Once your adjutant, always your adjutant! If milady has decided that this is the best course of action, then I shall gladly follow!
Olwen: Fred… Thank you.

@Boss
Oltof: You'll go no further! I... I'll be the one to make it out of this! I will!
Oltof: G-Glory to House Friege... 
Oltof: T-This is House Leonster's idea of waging war...? I... I may have been mistaken about you...

@End 
Leif: Yet more children caged... It's easy to see why the people of Tarrah rebelled.
Dryas: Indeed. But that makes the Empire all the more desperate to make an example of Tarrah and stamp out their uprising. Supposing they allowed Tarrah to defy them, countless cities would follow suit. It's for this very reason that the Empire has summoned troops from across Jugdral just to attack one city: they move to crush both Tarrah and its hopes all at once. I've even heard tell that the Gelben Ritter have been recalled from Belhalla to join in the assault.
Leif: The Gelben Ritter... That's House Friege's elite battalion of knights, correct?
Dryas: Indeed, but they are no mere knights: They're Mage Knights, each of them handpicked for the job, and each of them a noble from House Friege's inner circle. They're one of the strongest—if not THE strongest—battalions of knights in the continent. To make matters worse, they're led by none other than Princess Ishtar—the woman widely feared as the Goddess of Thunder. And her adjutant, Sir Reinhardt, is a damned fine warrior in his own right. Some even believe him to be the reincarnation of the crusader Thrud.
August: A man who readily lends his hand to child hunting is what you call a "damned fine warrior"? How typical... Knights are so hopeless. You've lost sight of reality!
Dryas: August! You insult me, speaking so brashly! Just what is it that I'm unaware of?! Please, do tell!
August: Need I spell it out? Reinhardt is Ishtar's adjutant and guardian. Ishtar is the betrothed of Crown Prince Julius. Julius—the very same man the people call the "Scion of Darkness," need I remind you—is the vessel of the dark god Loptous! Ultimately, anyone who serves Julius in any way is ushering the world closer to destruction!
Olwen: It's not like that at all! My brother... My lord brother, Reinhardt, is no servant of Loptous!
August: ...And who might you be?
Olwen: Olwen, sister of Sir Reinhardt.
Leif: For her own reasons, she wishes to accompany our army. I gave her leave to do so, unless you have objections.
August: ...I see. If that's the case, Olwen, take a good, hard look at what the Empire has done here. See them for what they truly are.
/***EOF***/
@Opening 
Now in Raydrik's clutches, Leif was detained and taken to Munster by Imperial soldiers. His imprisonment bore a certain irony: Munster was once the sovereign land of House Leonster. It was now governed by House Friege, who had personally been installed as rulers by the Emperor of Grannvale after his conquest of North Thracia. Raydrik himself had once been a general of the Kingdom of Conote, but colluded with the Empire during the war. For that service, he was made Baron of Munster. While still subordinate to Lord Bloom, head of House Friege, Raydrik was entrusted with the day-to-day management of Munster. Leif would now see firsthand what life was like in his family's former home...

@Intro 
Raydrik: Hahaha! Without a doubt, this feat will secure my position in Munster and beyond. Dalsin! See that the brat doesn't so much as blink before the knights of Conote come to claim him!
Dalsin: ...Aye, sire.
Raydrik: It's high time to celebrate with a visit to the arena. You, woman! You'll be accompanying me.
Eyvel: Why me...?
Raydrik: I assumed you would want to see the other girls. But if you wish to spit on my generosity...
Eyvel: Other girls? You mean... Mareeta and Nanna?
Raydrik: I believe those are their names, yes. Never fear—I haven't laid a finger on them. I've been keeping them quite comfortable.
Eyvel: ...Are you really gonna let me see them?
Raydrik: You have my word.
Eyvel: ...Fine. Lead the way.
Raydrik: Ah, how old-fashioned, leading the way for such a fine lady. Heh, heh, heh...
Eyvel: …...

Ced: This is it. Asbel and I will locate the children, but I want the rest of you to go down to the prison and free everyone locked up there. Brighton, you're in charge.
Brighton: Yessir! Once we've released these poor souls, we'll rendezvous with you.
Ced: Gods willing, we'll all meet again. Fortune be with you!

Machyua: We're counting on you, Lara. Think you can handle this?
Lara: Uh-huh. No lock is gonna stand in my way! Just watch my back, OK?
Brighton: Even if someone were to get past us, you could grab their weapons, no problem.
Lara: Not if they're too heavy, I can't!
Machyua: Then be glad me an' Brighton are here, eh? C'mon, let's go!

@Battle 
Lifis: Dammit... Ah, Lady Luck is so fickle...
Bandit 1: Hey, hold on... Yer that Lifis fella, ain'tcha? Weren't ya boss of a whole crew of pirates or somethin'? On the Corsair Isles, right?
Lifis: Hm? Oh, uh... yeah, but...
Bandit 1: Thought so! Hah, ya look just like the guy in all them wanted posters.
Lifis: Heh, isn't that somethin'? Guess I'm famous. Hmm... Maybe I can make use of these idiots...
Bandit 1: What, did I say somethin' wrong? Ya got this look on yer face...
Lifis: Truth be told, I'm fixin' to bust my way outta here.
Bandit 1: What?! You could pull somethin' like that off?
Lifis: Think about it, genius. Once my crew knows I'm locked up, whaddaya think they'll do? Not waltz up and ask nice for the Empire to let me go, that's for sure. In fact, I'll bet my boys are scopin' this place out right now. So since I'll be sayin' goodbye to the rest of you before long, let's make nice for now, eh?
Bandit 1: ...Really? Th-Then you gotta take me with you, Boss!
Lifis: Hmm... Well, if you can pull your own weight, I'll think about it.
Bandit 1: You mean it, Boss?! Leave it to me! Ain't no soldier gonna stand in our way, that's fer sure!
Bandit 2: Lithis? Er, sir? If'n all that's true, let me come along, too!
Bandit 3: Me three!
Lifis: Heheh... Played like a fiddle, all three of 'em! After we're busted out, I'll have a whole new opportunity on my hands.

Fergus: Huh, folk're gettin' real lively all of a sudden. So, what're you in for, kid?
Leif: ...And you are?
Fergus: Fergus the sellsword, at yer service. An' I'm this close to bein' done with Jugdral, lemme tell ya. Saw a bunch of soldiers makin' trouble fer a young lass, so I stepped in. Got arrested fer the effort. Terrible story, really.
Karin: Oh, please! You didn't just try to stop 'em, you beat one of 'em half to death! That's the terrible story, here.
Fergus: Wait just a darn minute—you were the one who started it!
Karin: Yeah, an' they arrested me 'cause they thought I helped you nearly kill that guy! This is on you, not me! So what're you gonna do about it?!
Fergus: I'm gonna take a nap, that's what. Hey, you gotta learn to take the good with the bad, you know? Just wake me when it's mealtime.
Karin: Ugh, I don't even care anymore... Oh, uh, sorry. I'm Karin, by the way.
Leif: Karin? That's an unusual name for a Thracian.
Karin: That's 'cause I'm not Thracian—I'm from Silesse. I'd just gotten into town when I got in trouble thanks to this dimwit.
Leif: Silesse... That's far north of here, if memory serves. Why come all the way here from Silesse?
Karin: Our prince up and left the country, that's why. The queen passed away, an' the princess is too young to take the throne, so people don't know who to turn to. I came here to look for our little runaway prince.
Leif: I'd heard that the Kingdom of Silesse had been overthrown by the Empire. How is it the royal family is still alive?
Karin: The rebels have been keeping them safe. Everyone still willing to fight has gathered in the city of Thove, where they've rallied around the royal family. Me, I'm gonna become a pegasus knight an' lend them my lance.
Leif: Impressive. If you become a pegasus knight, you'll be able to dance through the skies.
Karin: Well, I can fly already, but I won't be doing aerial acrobatics like a knight any time soon. Still, my pegasus an' me can already understand each other really well! His name's Hermes, an' he's just the cutest thing you ever saw, with a brain to match! He's probably the one dancing through the skies right now—looking for me, that is.
Leif: So why did the prince leave Silesse in the first place?
Karin: It's a long story. The prince wanted to go look for the king, but the king's somethin' of a flake himself. He also left Silesse years ago, abandonin' his kingdom and family both. Everybody feels betrayed, an' nobody expects the king to come back anymore. So we want Prince Ced to come back instead an' take the throne. I was sent here to meet with him, but ended up jailed 'cause of this muttonhead.
Fergus: Hm? What about mutton? Is it mealtime already? ...Oh. Guess not. Can't you keep it down until then, at least? This is a prison, fer cryin' out loud! It's not like anyone can escape all yer yammerin'!
Karin: And it's not like anyone can escape your loud snoring, either! Honestly, how can you sleep at a time like this? You are the most boorish, insensitive—
Guard: Hey! Keep it down, you twits!
Fergus: See? Even the Empire agrees with me! Bahaha...!
Karin: Tch...
Leif: ......
Fergus: What's eatin' you, lad? You look awful upset. Might as well speak yer mind, eh? Not like it could do any harm, now.
Leif: ...You're right. In fact, maybe you two can even help me...

Bandit 1: Boss, Boss! The door's open! It happened just like you said it would!
Lifis: ......
Bandit 1: What's the matter? Yer crew came for ya, don't that perk ya up?
Lifis: L-Lady Luck really is fickle... Somebody actually did come...! Well, let it never be said that lyin' through your teeth doesn't work!

Fergus: Well, well! Hey, Prince Leif, somebody's come to rescue us! C'mon, let's make a break for it!
Leif: Who in the world are they?
Fergus: Does it matter? Save those questions fer when we're far, far away from here. Look, there's a stairway to the north that leads outta here. You go ahead—I'll give them soldiers what-for if they try to follow.
Leif: But what happens to you if I Escape first?
Fergus: Mm, I expect I'll get caught an' thrown in here again—or worse. Don't matter to me none if I can do some good 'fore I get grabbed.
Leif: I won't accept that! I'll only escape after everyone else has!
Fergus: Hah! Yer gonna make me cry, junior. Suppose I can keep you company fer a time, if'n you need someone to hold yer hand that bad. ...Aw, who am I kiddin'? After hearin' yer story, I'm invested!
Karin: Hmm. You're a more decent sort than you look, Fergus.
Fergus: Fallen for me already, eh?
Karin: Oh, please! If you think that, you must still be half-asleep. Haven't had your morning coffee yet, grandpa?
Fergus: All right, all right, lay off. But have you made up yer own mind about escapin'? The Magi's head honcho is a fella by the name of Ced. Same name as the prince yer after, right?
Karin: It's probably him, yeah—but right now, Prince Leif is the one we need to worry about. And besides, that coward Raydrik is usin' women as hostages. That's unforgivable. Any plan that gives me the chance to smash his face in is fine by me.
Fergus: You got the skill with a blade to back up them words, lass?
Karin: I... won't pretend I'm the best, but I'll give it my all!
Fergus: Yeah, didn't think so. Ah, geez... That's two kids I gotta look out for now...

@Recruit-Talk 
%Leif,Dalsin
Dalsin: W-What?! The Empire tried to take me own kin in their damned child hunts?! I was... I was only goin' along with 'em 'cause they promised my family would be spared! Tch...! Damn Raydrik and damn the Empire! I've no love left for any of 'em! I defect! Me life is in yer hands!

@Recruit-Battle
Dalsin: I take no pleasure in this... You lot shoulda stayed in yer cells!

Dalsin: D-Damn... Jubel... Live a long and happy life with yer sister...

Dalsin: They got heart, I'll give 'em that... I owe 'em somethin', at least.

@End 
Manfroy: Veld, how go your operations here?
Veld: Smoothly, Archbishop Manfroy. Some of the citizens mount a meager resistance, but their children are harvested all the same.
Manfroy: Splendid! Then Tarrah is the only city not under our influence. If they remain disagreeable, make an example of them: burn the city and its people. Show Munster that the Empire does not tolerate resistance.
Veld: It would be done, Your Eminence, but the generals of House Friege seem to have lost their nerve. They've surrounded the city, but have yet to act.
Manfroy: Princess Ishtar, your father appears to be openly defying the direct orders of the crown. Surely you have an explanation for this lack of resolve?
Ishtar: My father has been placed in a difficult position. Many of our own, as well as the clergy, are vehemently opposed to the practice of... child hunts. My own brother is among the dissidents—and I stand with him. Archbishop Manfroy, on behalf of my family, I must ask that you stop this savagery! Abducting children too young to lift a sword? Separating them from their families? It's simply unconscionable! But you don't stop there, do you? No... You take these innocent souls and sacrifice them to your dark god! Have you no shame?!
Julius: Ishtar, my beloved, there's been a terrible misunderstanding. Never would I condone the slaughter of children! Do you truly believe me capable of such a thing? I merely want them to be trained and educated— sculpted into adults worthy to inhabit the Empire. The ones who survive our rigorous training will become a new kind of ruling class—one that will govern over all others of common birth. Consider it: these children of peasants are given a chance to earn nobility, even happiness, for themselves!
Ishtar: At what cost? They compete against each other, learn to hate each other, struggle to survive without their families... You dare call that happiness?
Julius: ...Ah, my dear, you'll understand my wisdom—your betrothed's wisdom—one day, I'm sure. Say, there's a beautiful bed of flowers just out back. Let's take in the view together, Ishtar.
Ishtar: ...Lord Julius...
/***EOF***/
@Opening 
Breaking through the enemy's lines, the Liberation Army finally set foot on Imperial soil. Their invasion could now begin in full. However, there was no time to celebrate: Fort Dandrum, widely regarded as an impregnable defense against Thracian incursions, now stood before them. If they could not capture Fort Dandrum, the army would never reach Tarrah in time...

@Intro 
Olwen: I've already told you, the enemy appeared out of nowhere to attack Fort Noel! If you don't send reinforcements, General Largo is as good as dead! Just say the word, and I'll lead our troops to stomp out these invaders! Please, General Kempf...!
Kempf: You claim this enemy "appeared out of nowhere" to besiege Fort Noel, but who exactly were they? Remind me: what was your assignment again? I'm just a lowly General of House Friege, and these little details escape me all the time. Ah, wait, it's coming back to me! Reconnaissance, wasn't it? I'm fairly certain that was it. But that doesn't make sense... If your duty was reconnaissance, surely you'd come to me with more than "they just appeared!" So either my memory has failed me, or you're such an incompetent soldier that you failed to gather even the slightest bit of information!
Olwen: I came here to warn you precisely because there was no time to do anything else! Listen to yourself! You're badgering me for needless details while our borders are under siege! Does it matter who the attackers are?!
Kempf: And what if this "attack" is merely a ploy to lure us away from the fort? Did you consider that, girlie? Fort Dandrum earned its reputation of being impregnable only because House Friege's 12th Battalion is here to guard it! Without them, the fort is mere stone and slate! If I don't have complete information on our enemy, I can't chance deploying the 12th Battalion. It would weaken our position!
Olwen: And what of General Largo?! Perhaps sending the battalion out is a risk, but he faces certain danger at this very moment!
Kempf: Bah, what's one or two old men in the grand scheme of things? Besides, how much time could he really have left, anyway?
Olwen: Wh-What?! General Kempf, even now, you... you...
Kempf: The glare you're shooting me is almost treasonous on its own—I've had men executed for much less brazen displays of disrespect. So before you back up that glare with equally traitorous words, let me warn you: you're very close to insulting the chain of command. Are you truly willing to defy your superior officer? It's amusing watching you squirm, I admit, but exercise some reason. Are you really up to the task, knowing what the Empire does to traitors?
Olwen: Tch...
Kempf: Is that it? You've got quite the mouth on you, but no spine to back up your words.
Olwen: ……
Kempf: You're a simple girl who got into Belhalla's military academy on the prestige of her blood, not the skill of her sword-arm. So naïve, so oblivious to the way of the world... You're lucky to have a commanding officer as understanding as I. Don't worry. I never expected much of you: I know that your only real weapon is to go begging your brother for help.
Olwen: Wh-What did you just say to me?!
Kempf: Hm? Are you hard of hearing? I said that all you're good for is to go crying to Reinhardt!
Olwen: You...!
Kempf: Oh, how he must dote on you... Then again, Reinhardt's greatest skill is knowing how to lead women on!
Olwen: Hold your tongue! I'll not stand here and let you dishonor my brother! This is unforgivable...! Have at you!
Kempf: Hah! You dare to draw your sword on me?! You feeble-minded wench! Men! Seize Olwen and throw her in the dungeon for this act of rebellion!
Guard: Yes, General! Lady Olwen, in the name of the Empire, you're under arrest! Drop your weapon!
Olwen: Tch... General Kempf... How contemptible...

Kempf: Hah! That should put the impertinent little girl in her place. And if his own sister is executed for mutiny, Reinhardt will no doubt be stripped of his rank as well! Oh, the look on his face when he hears of this will be quite the spectacle! Ahahaha!
Fred: General Kempf! Explain yourself!
Kempf: Fred, my dear boy, you look different from your usual self. Is something amiss?
Fred: Don't play dumb! Why have you done this to Lady Olwen?! It's a violation of our military code to punish a subordinate over a personal grudge like this! You have a responsibility to overturn this! Please, sir, release her at once! Otherwise, I have no choice but to report this matter to Princess Ishtar!
Kempf: "Personal grudge?" Nonsense! Right where you're standing, Lady Olwen drew her sword against me, her superior officer! She meant to kill me!
Fred: Wh-What?! That's not possible! She... She would never...
Kempf: Fred, since you're so well-acquainted with our military code, what's the punishment for turning your sword against a superior officer? Because I seem to recall that it's a crime punishable by execution...
Fred: ...So that's your goal, is it? Your cowardice knows no bounds...
Kempf: Be that as it may, as Olwen's adjutant, her duties now fall to you. I command you to ride forth and engage these invaders in her place. But be warned: this isn't merely an order, it's a punishment. You are not permitted to retreat for any reason! See the battle through, regardless of the outcome, or I'll have Olwen executed!
Fred: Kempf...! You're shameless!
Kempf: Hm? Did you say something? Eh, must've just been my imagination. Heh, heh, heh...

@Battle 
Kempf: What's this...?! The enemy flies the twin banners of Njörun and House Leonster! Are they being led by... a boy? Why, he can't be more than 14 or 15! I've got swords that are older than him! Ah, I see... That must be the wayward Prince Leif! First Olwen, and now Prince Leif marches right up to my doorstep! The gods are most generous today—this is my chance! All hands, hear me: I've a plan for just such an occasion as this, but for it to work, you must lure the enemy inside! And don't be too obvious about it! Prepare to launch Operation Portcullis!

Kempf: Ahahaha! Those dullards actually fell for it! All right, men! Fire at will!

Leif: Do the holy-blooded knights of House Friege fight using such underhanded tactics?! When our forces met in Noel Valley, I respected the honor with which your army conducted itself! It seems I was mistaken!
Fred: ...On behalf of my home, my honor compels me to agree with you. The crusader Thrud would not have fought using such treachery. This is all because of that fool of a man, General Kempf... This disgrace is his doing. As a knight, I'm loath to give my life in service of such a foul plan. You seem to be an honorable lad. I've self-control enough to not turn my sword against you if you can promise the same.
Leif: ...If you've no mind to fight, sir, then we have no reason to meddle with you. In fact, we may even be able to help each other—I'd wager the both of us have little energy to spare, now.
Fred: I... can agree to those terms. I've many things left undone. ...It's settled, then. We can both agree that our time is better spent devising an escape.
Leif: Very well. My forces will storm the castle's interior in short order. When that happens, you should make your escape to the south—we can take care of the gate ourselves. Are we in agreement?
Fred: We are. It appears I owe you quite the debt... I'm Fred, proud knight of House Schutaeze. I would know your name as well, friend.
Leif: ...It's Leif. Leif of House Leonster.
Fred: House Leonster?! I... I see... Well, Lord Leif, I believe we'll meet again one of these days!

@Recruit-Battle 
Fred: You'd turn your blade on me in this situation?! What idiocy!

Fred: Olwen... I tried to save you... F-Forgive me...

Kempf: Tch... So much for the "impregnable" Fort Dandrum...

Kempf: Tch... So much for the "impregnable" Fort Dandrum...

Kempf: Ugh... What a joke...! I must flee this place, at least for the time being...

@End 
^start
August: Simply superb work, my prince! With Fort Dandrum captured this quickly, it will be all but impossible for the enemy to escape! We cannot afford to rest on our laurels, however. This being an Imperial fort, I expect there are children imprisoned here as well. We've bought ourselves some time with our swift victory. Let's make the most of it, and conduct a sweep of the interior! If indeed there are children locked up here, we must help them at once!

Dryas: Fort Dandrum has fallen, and not a moment too soon. We've little time to spare. Still, better to seize a fort slowly than to incur massive casualties doing so quickly. There's nothing left for us here—Fort Dandrum no longer has any strategic value. Ignore any enemies already in retreat. We must make for Tarrah on the double!
^end
/***EOF***/
@Opening 
Abiding by the armistice brokered by Arion and Linoan, the Liberation Army withdrew from Tarrah. Their next goal was a matter of some debate: the Freeblades of Fiana and the Magi wished to make for Castle Munster and liberate it first, while the nobles of Leonster and the sellswords of Tarrah favored liberating Castle Leonster first. Ultimately, pragmatism prevailed, as it was agreed that seizing Leonster first was more advantageous to the army's mobility. However, as they neared Solwood Pass, Leif would soon have to make another strategic decision...

@Intro 
Dryas: Prince Leif, a moment, if I may? I would advise heading west at Solwood Pass to reach the road to Nordrhein.
August: And it is on this matter that Duke Dryas and I are of different minds. I instead argue heading east at the pass. That route will allow us to attack Leonster from the south, where the Empire's defenses are sure to be weaker.
Dryas: Clearly you aren't well-acquainted with the area. If you were, you'd know that Millefeuille Forest lies to Leonster's south. The place is synonymous with folk getting lost and never returning! Hell, the locals even call it "Mirage Forest" for short!
August: Don't patronize me. I'm well aware of the dangers—but so is the Empire. They won't be expecting an attack to come from such a treacherous area. With our smaller numbers, making clever use of the terrain is our only hope of victory. That's just basic tactics!
Dryas: I must strenuously object! All of Thracia—no, all of Jugdral is watching our battle! This is about more than victory! We cannot merely win, we must win in such a way that gives inspiration and hope to the masses oppressed by the Empire! Are we to skulk through the woods like common bandits? Nay! We have to make a glorious spectacle of it, charging into battle with Leonster's flag held high!
August: Such a spectacle would indeed be glorious—for the Empire. We'd be charging right into their front lines. Our casualties would be enormous.
Dryas: Some of our own would perish, true, but it would be an honorable death worthy of a knight of Leonster.
August: Don't presume to speak for all of us, Duke Dryas. Only a small fraction of our troops are knights—many more hold no title. To them, your notion of an "honorable death" is something neither meaningful nor desirable. See that you don't get innocent men killed by projecting your own values onto them.
Dryas: Th-That's uncalled for, August! Your very words come perilously close to an insult! *Sigh* Though I suppose there's little point to us arguing further. The decision rests with Prince Leif now.
August: ...Indeed it does. We shall do as the prince commands.

Bandit: Boss, Boss! I gots a great idea! Let's hit up that there village today!
Zile: What, that old slum? It's just a couple lean-tos and an outhouse. They don't got nuthin' worth stealin'. Heh, burnin' the place down might actually be an improvement fer them villagers.
Bandit: They might not got anything valuable, but they DO got girls. Real pretty girls. We could just snatch 'em up and sell 'em to slavers! It'd be an easy payday!
Zile: Huh... You might be onto something, young'un! All right, let's do it! Move out, boys! Round up all the ladyfolk and kill everybody else!

@Battle 
Amalda: It was good seeing you, Bishop, though I wish it were under better circumstances. You'll watch over the children, I trust.
Bishop: Of course, milady. They'll be most safe here—the Empire has no reason to come all this way through the mountains for one poor village. Truth be told, I'm most glad to dedicate my final years to raising these children. But what of you, Lady Amalda? Will you be all right? If the Empire learns of what you've done here, I shudder to think of what terrible fate would befall you...
Amalda: I feel no fear, only shame—shame that, even as a proud knight of House Friege, I can only help these children in secret. With each passing day, more and more are taken captive and sent to Belhalla... I can only save but a handful. Each time His Majesty grants me an audience, I try to convince him that going along with these child hunts is a grave mistake. But time and time again, he simply refuses to listen to reason... And now I'm in command of a whole battalion... How can I lead my men when I don't even believe in our orders myself?
Sleuf: I'm quite familiar with how you must feel, Lady Amalda, but you mustn't let yourself get careless.
Amalda: Father Sleuf, I can't just—
Sleuf: Without you, we'd have no way of helping the captive children at all. We'd be reduced from rescuing a handful to rescuing none. Think of how many more lives we have yet to save before throwing your own away.
Amalda: ...You're right. Thank you for your counsel, Father Sleuf. I'll do as you advise.

Sleuf: She walks a hard road, that one. Would that our own was any easier...
Bishop: Yet for all that we do, the world is still crumbling to pieces all around us. We can do naught but pray as it collapses...
Sleuf: Perhaps... but I know what I heard at the Tower of Bragi. "When the three lights converge as one, darkness shall be banished from the living world."
Bishop: The voice of Father Claud, long since dead and buried...
Sleuf: I'm sure it was him. He asked a service of me, saying, "O righteous man, servant of Bragi, do what I cannot: be my eyes, look upon your world, and tell me what it has become."
Bishop: Mm... I understand. You're meant for greater things than raising a few toddlers in a remote village. Go. Embark on this journey the gods have charged you with. Worry not, I'll care for the children.
Sleuf: Thank you, Bishop... Please forgive my selfishness. I'm deeply sorry I cannot stay...
Ralf: Bishop? We got a big problem on our hands. A pack of bandits are closing in on the village.
Bishop: H-How can that be?! We have nothing of value!
Ralf: Guess they got their reasons, 'cause I just saw 'em headed this way with my own two eyes. That woman you were talking with, the knight, she says she's gonna help fight 'em off. But with just the two of us, I dunno how long we can hold 'em back. You'd best take all the women and children an' hightail it outta here.
Bishop: Will the gods grant us no respite? Bah! Very well, Ralf, I'll do as you say. You have my apologies... A sellsword defending a poor village for no pay... You're proof that not all good has vanished from the world. We all thank you.
Ralf: Heh... I never run from a fight, Bishop. No matter what!

@Recruit-Talk 
%Leif,Ralf
Leif: Are you a sellsword hired by the village?
Ralf: Depends what you mean. I'm fighting for the village, but I sure don't remember gettin' paid by 'em. Not that I woulda taken their gold even if they had offered me any. Couldn't take coin from the needy.
Leif: Then why fight on their behalf?
Ralf: I stumbled across this place in the middle of my own little journey and they lent me a hand. Time to return the favor, that's all. Not that it's any of your business, ya little brat. Just who are you supposed to be, anyway?
Leif: Ah, my apologies. I shouldn't have started prying without introducing myself first. I'm Leif of Leonster.
Ralf: Leif...? H-How...?! Are you THE Leif, the prince? Talk about being in the right place at the right time! See, I'm Ralf, an' I'm not much more than a lowly sellsword, myself. If it's all right with you, Prince, could I join your army?
Leif: Of course! We could always use more men like you. Though if I may, I'd like to ask you something. Why exactly do you want to join my army? What's your reason?
Ralf: Because I won't put up with living under the Empire's thumb for one moment longer. That good enough of a reason?
Leif: I... can't say I disagree, so that suffices for me, yes. Ralf, my greatest desire is to free every person suffering under the Empire's tyranny. Do you swear to fight for that cause?
Ralf: Sure do! Leave it to me!

@Battle 
Amalda: Wonders never cease... That band of soldiers has come to the village's rescue. The gods may yet be merciful... Now, it's high time I returned to my own soldiers.

@Battle-Talk 
%Mareeta,Shannam
Mareeta: Hold! Who are you?! Another one of the Empire's lapdogs?!
Shannam: How uncouth... If you wish to live, turn your blade aside. I didn't learn the technique of Astra just to waste it on cutting down clueless little girls like you.
Mareeta: Astra? B-But that's the secret art of the Isaachian royal family...! That would make you—
Shannam: Correct. It is I, Prince Shannan of Isaach. But I've been forced to hide my identity, so do us both a favor and forget you ever saw me.
Mareeta: Prince Shannan! I would ask something of you!
Shannam: Hrk! K-Keep your voice down, would you? Let's avoid any surprises, shall we?
Mareeta: Please, you must teach me some of your swordplay! I beg of you! It doesn't have to be a prolonged lesson. Just knowing the secret of how to perform Astra would be enough...
Shannam: ……
Mareeta: Please, Prince Shannan! I want—no, I NEED to become stronger! No matter what, I must grow stronger...!
Shannam: W-Well, I could take you through the motions, I suppose...
Mareeta: Would you? Oh, I'd be in your debt!
Shannam: (Oof, this has gone from bad to worse. Guess I'll just ramble off some vague nonsense about swordsmanship...) 
Shannam: Knowing the movements of the technique is important, of course, but more important is your spirit, your heart. When the swiftness of your body becomes one with the sharpness of your mind, only then are you capable of learning Astra.
Mareeta: My body and my mind...?
Shannam: Indeed. Now, to begin with, make a simple swing with your sword.
Mareeta: But how should I swing it, exactly? Could you demonstrate? Just once?
Shannam: Uhhh... N-No, that would defeat the whole point. Astra can only be mastered through your own attempts to understand it. If I were to demonstrate it, all you would learn is how to imitate me. (Yeah, that sounded good...)
Mareeta: So that's how it is, huh...? All right. I'll just try something, then. Hee-yah!
Shannam: No, not like that! You're doing it completely wrong!
Mareeta: Haaa-yah!
Shannam: No, no! Now you're just flailing your sword around like you're blindfolded! It's about using your body and mind together, remember? Your body is working, but your mind isn't in it! (Lady, I am sellin' you a bill of goods here...)
Mareeta: Focus my mind into my body... Focus my mind into my body... HAAA-YAH!
Mareeta: W-Was that...? I can't believe it...!
Shannam: ...No way...
Mareeta: No, that can't be it! It isn't really THAT easy, is it, Prince Shannan?
Shannam: Huh? Oh, well, uh... Of course not, my pupil! You couldn't call that a perfected Astra!
Mareeta: That's what I thought. I mean, that hardly took any time at all...
Shannam: A-At any rate, I promised to show you the motions, and I've made good on my word. I'll be taking my leave now.
Mareeta: Thank you for everything, Prince Shannan! Focus my mind into my body... Focus my body into my mind...
Shannam: (Maaan, what was up with that girl?)

@Visit 
Bishop: Good heavens, what a day this has been... Ah! You're the strangers that came to our village's aid, are you not? I wish to thank your leader personally. Where might they be?

Bishop: My goodness, we owe you and your forces quite the debt... Your decision to aid us is the only reason any of us still draw breath. Please accept this gift as a token of our gratitude.
Leif: Thank you, Bishop. If you'll excuse us, my men and I must be on our way.
Bishop: Where are you headed, might I ask?
Leif: We ride for Leonster.
Bishop: Is that so? I've a favor to ask of you, then. A disciple of mine, Sleuf, left here on... something of a personal journey. If you happen to cross paths, do send word that the lad is all right. That said, I offer to send you partway there with my Warp staff. I can teleport you to one of two places: The first is Millefeuille Forest, which is to the south of Leonster. Be warned: there's a reason it has the nickname "Mirage Forest." The second is Nordrhein, the coastline that runs east all the way to Leonster. But you'd have to breach the fort the Empire has there. Which way shall I send you?

@Boss 
Zile: Heheheh... You wanna square off with me, do ya?

Zile: Ugh! D-Damned... fools...

@End 
^start
Dryas: This way leads to Nordrhein, which will take us east along the coast to Leonster. Seasoned Imperial troops will be on the lookout for us. I anticipate the battle will be a difficult one indeed. Is this your will, sire?

August: This path shall take us through the deep woodlands of Millefeuille Forest, better known as the infamous "Mirage Forest." We would encounter little resistance, but there may well be unforeseen hazards we have yet to discover. Shall we proceed, my prince?
^end
/***EOF***/
@Opening 
Acting on the advice of Dorias, Leif made for Leonster by way of the coast. However, traveling along such an exposed, public road had its price: the army would have to breach Fort Nordrhein, an Imperial base. There, House Friege had deployed an elite battalion of soldiers, determined to stop the Liberation Army in its path...

@Intro 
Nicolov: Kempf, for your sake, I hope you're prepared for anything.
Kempf: Leave everything to me, Colonel Nicolov. These rabble may have the gall to call themselves a "Liberation Army," but they're no stronger than a pack of bandits. My battalion shall shatter their delusions of grandeur with ease.
Nicolov: "With ease," you say? Get your head on straight, boy! Are you not the very man who abandoned his post and left his men to die at Fort Dandrum? You scurried home with your tail between your legs, brought shame to your uniform, and you still have the audacity to be arrogant?! These men are the Lanzenritter of Leonster, Prince Leif leads their vanguard, and they're within spitting distance of their motherland! Their morale is higher than the damn clouds! Underestimate them and you're as good as dead!
Kempf: Ah... You... have my apologies, Colonel...
Nicaraf: Save it, Kempf. Just do as I say. I need you and your battalion to stay on the bridge. Guard it with your life. The ballistae in the rear will help hold your position. No matter what, don't move out of their range. You got that? It's an order: stick with the ballistae!
Kempf: ...Yes, sir.
Nicolov: Now, it may seem like we're on the defensive, but we're just biding our time. The real battle will begin when our reinforcements arrive. When the Knights of Ulster get here, we'll have the rebels surrounded from the front and back. We'll trap them in a pincer attack and crush the enemy in one fell swoop!
Kempf: What? The Knights of Ulster are to be our reinforcements?
Nicolov: The very same. Count Conomor is bringing nearly 100 men—the rebels will be ambushed by the mightiest army in North Thracia!
Kempf: I... see... So Conomor is to get all the glory, then? No, this won't do at all! The rebels must die by MY hands, and mine alone!

August: My prince, the scout we sent ahead has returned. He brings word of the enemy's formation.
Leif: Hm... The perimeter of Fort Nordrhein is protected by ballistae... We won't be able to seize it without doing something about them.
August: Unfortunately, that bridge is the only way across the river—and it's being defended by a battalion of heavily-armored knights. To make matters worse, attacking the bridge would put us within range of the enemy's ballistae.
Leif: Then our only option is to lure the knights out of the ballistae's range.
August: I doubt any subterfuge would convince them to move far enough away. They have a far superior position, and they know it.
Leif: Perhaps, but it's still worth considering. Surely there's some way of tricking them away from the bridge...
Olwen: Leave that task to me, Lord Leif. I have... a history with their commander. I'm certain I can lure him away from the bridge—and his troops will be forced to follow.
Leif: J-Just what are you proposing, Olwen?! I won't allow you to put yourself in such grave danger!
Olwen: Then I ask it from you as a favor, Prince. I want to help you just as you helped me!

@Battle 
Woman: Father Sleuf? Seems a battle has broken out just outside—an awfully big one, at that. It's too dangerous for a man of the cloth. You'd best stay here a while longer. It'd be my pleasure to have you, it would.
Sleuf: Very well. Loathe as I am to impose upon your kindness, I suppose I don't have much of a choice...

Ilios: Damn it all... Now I'm serving in that buffoon's vanguard... Where did I go so wrong? Are all commoners like me just doomed to be pawns of the nobility?

Conomor: All troops, charge! Show the enemy the fury of Ulster!
Soldier: Lord Conomor, are you sure about this? Win or lose, the motherland is already forfeit. We'll never have another chance like this to retake Alster!
Conomor: I know. But if we betray the Empire now, I shudder to think what fate would befall Princess Miranda... The girl is just a lass of 15 years... She's much too young to die in some darkened monastery, far from home...

@Recruit-Talk 
%Karin,Ilios
Karin: Hey, hey! Over here, pal! Uh, sorry to butt in like this, but can I bend your ear for a second?
Ilios: Wh-What? Who are you supposed to be? Look, calm your pegasus down and stop fluttering around me like that!
Karin: About that... I don't suppose you'd lay down your sword and join up with us, would you?
Ilios: H-Hey! Is this some kind of joke? Why the sudden olive branch? Gods above, you're a strange one...
Karin: Should I take that as a "no," then? Oh, I should've known this would just be a waste of time... Well, goodbye, I guess...
Ilios: H-Hey! Wait a minute!
Karin: Hm? What is it?
Ilios: I would, uh... consider defecting if I could be promised certain conditions.
Karin: Really? Well, now we're gettin' somewhere! All right, what is it you want?
Ilios: Well, assuming Leonster is restored to its former glory, I'd want full peerage and to receive a title of nobility.
Karin: That's all? Well, that should be an easy ask! Say, if a noble title is all you're askin' for, wouldn't that make you just a commoner? You must be a real hard worker to have made it into House Friege's army! I mean, a commoner in House Friege is like a pegasus flying with Thracia's Dracoknights!
Ilios: "Commoner" this, "commoner" that... Don't think you can label me so easily! I may be a man of common birth, but I'm not ashamed of it! I'm proud that I was born into my family, even if there's not a drop of noble blood in our veins!
Karin: Then why do you want a noble title so badly?
Ilios: Ah... W-Well, I... Look, I don't have to explain myself to you!
Karin: Uh-huh... Listen, my name's Karin. What's your name, O noble commoner?
Ilios: Oh, uh... It's Ilios.
Karin: That's an awfully noble-sounding name... Y'know, the kind a stuffy aristocrat has to practice pronouncing. Is "Ilios" even your real name?
Ilios: Oh, what a stupid thing to ask! Of course it's my real name! My father gave me such a name in the hope that I would one day earn a title to match!
Karin: Oh-ho! So another piece of the puzzle falls into place! No wonder you're chasing after nobility so stubbornly when it's literally stamped into your name. Look, maybe it would be better to just change your name instead of diving head-first into this whole "quest for nobility" thing. Besides, you don't really look like an "Ilios." Like, if I shouted "Ilios!" into a crowded room, nobody would look at you. No offense. You look more like a... Troy! Oh, that's perfect! That fits you much better, don't you think?
Ilios: Wh—Troy?! Look, you can't just go around messing with people's birth names!
Karin: Well, Sir Troy, it's good to have you fighting alongside us!
Ilios: H-Hey! That's no fair!

@Battle-Talk 
%Olwen,Kempf
Olwen: It's been a long time, General Kempf. How have you been?
Kempf: Olwen?! Hah! I see your idiocy knows no bounds! Not content with a mutineer's death, you want to be hung as a traitor, too?
Olwen: Traitor I may be, but my name will be remembered more fondly than yours. Look at yourself. There's no fight left in you—just false bravado. Your whole charade of arrogance is pathetic. You're a failure—and you're too much of a coward to admit it.
Kempf: What?! How dare you...! I may have fled from Fort Dandrum, but what of you? You abandoned Largo in Nowell Valley, did you not? Bah! You can add "hypocrite" to your litany of crimes!
Olwen: I ran to get reinforcements. You just ran for your life. I see you for what you are: a coward. When the going gets tough, all you do is run. You ran at Fort Dundrum, and you're still running here—cowering behind your troops and trembling like a child. And just as you hide in the shadows here, you'll never escape the shadow of my lord brother Reinhardt.
Kempf: Hrk...! You... You'll DIE for those words! Men, seize that woman! Kill her precious rebels! Kill all of them! A lordship to whoever brings Olwen to me alive! I'll choke the life out of you with my bare hands, Olwen! You hear me?!
Olwen: I've played my part... Gods be with you, Lord Leif.

@Battle
Kempf: Order a full charge on the enemy's front lines! I'll give a pouch of gold for every rebel head! Stain the ground with their blood! Leave no one alive!
Soldier: H-Hold a moment, General! That goes against Colonel Nicolov's orders!
Kempf: And when we win the day, no one will care! Besides, Nicolov is nothing! Nobody! And I'M royalty—don't you forget that! All troops, charge! Kill every last one of them!

Conomor: So the Lanzenritter is alive and well... and just as fierce as their forefathers. Perhaps... Perhaps we should withdraw, just on this occasion. We've misjudged the rebels' strength. Knights of Ulster, I'm ordering a full retreat!

@Recruit-Visit 
Sleuf: Ah, you must be Lord Leif!
Leif: That's right. A priest back in Solwood told me to keep an eye out for you. But how did you recognize me?
Sleuf: I've seen you before, though not in person. I was granted a vision at the Tower of Bragi. It's just as I foresaw... A boy bearing the Twofold Light... such great potential he carries... Father Claud... Your words echo still, and they only become truer as time goes on...
Leif: The Tower of Bragi? Twofold Light? What in blazes are you talking about?
Sleuf: When the time comes, milord, understanding will dawn on you like a grand sunrise. Prince Leif, if it pleases you, I would accompany you for a time.

@Boss 
Kempf: You! YOU! If you hadn't come this far...!

Kempf: I-Is this... a joke? How could I... be bested... by them?

Kempf: Hmph... I won't forget this! Remember me well, for this is the face of your conqueror!

Brook: Rebel scum! My blade shall be the one to cut you down!

Brook: Ugh... This isn't... the end...

Brook: I'll be the laughing stock of the Empire...

@Recruit-Battle
Ilios: What, you're really going to fight me? How amusing! You think you can best Sir Ilios!

Ilios: After all this... I still die... a commoner...

Ilios: Tch... You think you can push me around just 'cause I'm a commoner? Damn... I can't take this anymore...

Conomor: I pray you don't hold a grudge, but this is fate. Forgive me!

Conomor: Ulster... shall... rise again...

Conomor: Mm... I'll bear the shame of this defeat for the rest of my days... Every third thought shall be my grave...

@End 
Dryas: Well done, Prince Leif! You've weathered another difficult situation with finesse and wisdom. Our motherland of Leonster is but a stone's throw away. The people have been awaiting your return for many years now...
Leif: Leonster... My kingdom...
Dryas: Indeed. Your sovereign land. Ah, but I get ahead of myself... You were so young when we had to flee Leonster—it would be understandable if you do not remember her beauty.
Leif: No, I remember Leonster's beauty—but most of all, I remember that night. As long as I live, I'll never forget it.
Dryas: "That night?" What do you remember, milord?
Leif: The night that Castle Leonster fell... The flames burned so brightly, I thought it was already sunrise. I remember just looking up at the sky from Finn's arms... At first, I didn't understand what was happening. But when I saw the look on Finn's face, I knew something terrible had happened, and I was filled with this... deep sorrow. It was the first time in my life I'd felt such a profound sadness...
Dryas: I forced Finn into a tough role, I admit. But he was the only man for the job—the only man I could trust with your life. "As long as the prince is safe, the day will come when Leonster rises again." That's what I told him. And off he rode, clutching you to his chest, away from the flames consuming the castle...
Leif: That was the last time I ever saw Finn cry. Ever since then, he hasn't shed a tear for anything... No, not just cry—it's like he forgot how to laugh, too...
Dryas: He left a part of himself behind in Leonster. And he's not alone—we all left a piece of our souls behind when we fled the motherland...

Leif: Truth be told, when the Knights of Ulster attacked from the rear, I thought...
Dryas: The disorder in their vanguard is what saved us, frankly. But still, to see so many soldiers assembled so quickly... Count Conomor is indeed a splendid leader.
Leif: Hm? Count Conomor?
Dryas: Indeed. He's a brave general of Ulster, a man of honorable heart and unshakable loyalty. And as the saying goes, "There are no cowardly soldiers under a brave general."
Leif: Then why is such a man serving the Empire? Does their tyranny not concern him?
Dryas: It's most puzzling, but there must be something we're unaware of... Regardless, he isn't someone I'm eager to fight again.
/***EOF***/
@Intro 
Dryas: Escaping Tarrah may be difficult with all these civilians in tow...
Leif: Civilians? You mean townsfolk from Tarrah are following us?
Linoan: I'm deeply sorry, Lord Leif... I tried to convince them that accompanying us was too dangerous, but nothing I said could sway them.
Leif: *Sigh* I can see that... Well, how many of them are there?
Dryas: About 600, and they're following us in disorganized groups.
Leif: That many? We can't possibly escort them all the way to North Thracia!
Dryas: I concur. We're busy enough fighting for our own lives to spare any manpower to babysit them. In honesty, ensuring their safe passage out of just this valley may prove to be difficult.
Leif: But we can't turn a blind eye to them, either. At the very least, we have to defend them until they can escape the valley. Instruct our forces to focus on protecting the townsfolk until they're clear of the battlefield. Make that our first priority!
Dryas: Understood, Prince Leif.

Codda: I take it the Pegasus Corps are prepared for battle, Captain Misha?
Misha: You won't be disappointed. I've brought half of our whole mercenary company along—they'll be ready to take to the sky shortly.
Codda: Very good. You may return to Leonster now—I've no more use for you.
Misha: No. I'm not about to let you steal command of my squad right out from under me.
Codda: Oh, come now, Captain. We're only here to mop up what's left of the Liberation Army as they retreat. Picking at a dead carcass is hardly a task suited to an esteemed pegasus knight such as yourself, wouldn't you agree?
Misha: I said no. My squad is—
Codda: You have me mistaken for a man who repeats himself. This is an order, Captain.
Misha: I... All right, I get it. I'm going...

@Battle 
Civilian: Thanks for pullin' our sorry bums outta the fire back there. I brought this Stamina Drink along as a little taste of home for the road, but I figure you can get way more use outta it than me.

@Boss 
Codda: Heh, heh, heh... You imbeciles!

Codda: Loptous, lord of all... Take this humble servant's soul... into your embrace...

Codda: We don't fear death, you simpletons...!

@End 
Dryas: It seems we've cheated death yet again. Our forces are all clear of the valley, sire.
Leif: Gods' breath, what a relief! Now, what should be our next course of action?
Dryas: I'd advise crossing over the Dauph Mountains to reach the road to Nordrhein.
Leif: The road to Nordrhein? So you propose that we make our way to Leonster along the coast?
Dryas: That's my thinking, yes, but I've not yet heard August's opinion on the matter. At any rate, we'll have to cross this mountain range regardless of which route we take. We should make haste, Prince Leif.

Lewyn: A moment of your time, August?
August: L-Lord Lewyn?! How... How were you able to find me so quickly, Your Highness?
Lewyn: We've been through much together, you and I. I know how you think. When I heard Tarrah had fallen, I anticipated this would be the route you'd take to escape the city. It seems I was correct. And with their defeat, Leif's army now faces a crisis of purpose... You certainly have your work cut out for you.
August: It... seems I was not up to the task. I'm sorry for disappointing you, Your Highness.
Lewyn: Oh, don't kid yourself. Tarrah's capitulation was inevitable—we both knew this. You've been doing a fine job.
August: If you say so, Your Highness...
Lewyn: Now, if there's no other matters of import, I must be going. I still have to check in on the Orgahil region before returning to Isaach. It will likely be another year before we're able to meet like this again. Until then, I leave things in your capable hands, August.
August: Another whole year... There's still so much left to be done...
/***EOF***/
@Opening 
Ridding Iz of the pirates who had infested it, Leif hurriedly resumed his course to Munster. It was not long until he arrived at Kerberos' Gate, a small fortress that guarded the entrance to the province of Munster...

@Intro 
Raydrik: Are the cattle being collected on schedule, Lobos?
Lobos: Ah, Baron Raydrik. We've rounded up all the brats in the area, rest assured. For the time being, I've locked them inside the fort's prison. What do you want done with them, milord?
Raydrik: Hm. Best keep them there until the Loptr Church arrives to claim them. The Magi may well try to free the little worms—see that your men are prepared for an incursion.
Lobos: Magi? As in those rebels from Munster? They're still alive?
Raydrik: To my great chagrin, yes. I thought they'd been wiped out, but they've resurfaced recently. The little swarm of flies seem to have a new man in charge...
Lobos: Never a moment's peace these days... And what of you, sire? Will you be returning to Munster?
Raydrik: Not immediately. My journey has been most tiring, and I would rest here while I can. What better place for a man to catch his breath than the impregnable Kerberos' Gate, eh, Lobos?
Lobos: Hah! Indeed, sire.

August: That fortress, Kerberos' Gate, guards the road into Munster. As strongholds go, it's rather small, but don't let its size fool you: the people of this area say it's more terrible than Hell itself.
Leif: Why?
August: The soldiers here no longer watch over the road—they search for children. Lord Leif, the fortress now serves as a base for the province's child hunts.
Leif: Child hunts? What are you talking about, August?
August: ...All across the Empire, children aged seven to thirteen are seized by Imperial soldiers. They're sent to Belhalla, the capital, and after the atrocities wrought upon them there... the ones who survive are never the same. They are children no more—they begin life anew as servants to the dark god, Loptous.
Leif: That's inconceivable. What manner of tall tale...
August: I realize it sounds too horrible to be true, but this is no fable—this is the state of Jugdral. Even now, children languish in captivity within that very fortress you see.
Leif: ...What soldier could willingly take part in such a thing? No one with a spark of humanity left, to be sure. I'm sorry, August, but we must part ways here. I cannot allow this evil to go unchallenged—I must free those children from this barbarism.
August: Indeed... Allow me to give you one last piece of advice, sire. Kerberos' Gate is too small to fit horses, so have any of your soldiers that fight on horseback [Dismount] before entering. Further, after everything they've seen, I'd wager the children are too traumatized to even move. Have your men carry them back to the villages, and their families will owe you a debt they can never repay. Fortune be with you, Prince of Leonster.
Leif: Hold! This whole time, you've known I was the heir to House Leonster?
August: But of course. What's more, I want to see you returned to power. Let's arrange to meet in Munster after your business is concluded.

@Visit 
Woman: Please, I beseech ye! Save me boy, Romeo, from that gods-forsaken fort!

Man: Master Coirpre, taken by those savages... Argh, a pox on them all! What am I to do...?

Old Woman: Me... me daugher... Please, good folk! Yer armed and fit fer battle! Bring me girl, Lucia, back! I beg of ye!

Young Woman: Me kid brother, Yubel, was taken to Kerberos' Gate... Please, stranger! He's just a wee lad, and you've the arms an' army to give them Imperial dastards what-for!

Woman: Hm? Oh, it can't be! Romeo, safe and sound... From the depths of me heart, I thank ye. Fer bringing me boy back single-handed, I'd like ye to have this. This here ring's been handed down in me family fer as long as I can remember. It's enchanted, it is. Take it, I insist.

Man: Master Coirpre! Thank the gods you're all right! I was sick with worry... The young master is a nobleman's ward, and was coming to our village as a messenger, but got mistaken for one of our own children! You have my deepest thanks, but I've little else to give... Still, I imagine rescuing a child of Thracian nobility ought to pay off sooner or later.

Old Woman: Lucia! Oh, me own girl, hale and hardy! Thought me heart would give out from worry, it would! I can't begin to say how grateful I am to ye, stranger. Don't have much in the way of thanks, but... Mayhap this old parchment could be of some good to you? We been puzzlin' over it fer years, but what it does is beyond our ken. All we know is that merely holdin' it fills ye with tremendous vim and vigor, amongst other things. Hope it helps ye, I surely do.

Young Woman: Holy Heim! Yubel, yer safe! You... gave me a real scare there... I'm so glad to see you again. Whatever yer reasons, stranger, thank you fer helpin'. Truly. Now listen, me older brother is an Imperial soldier, but if'n you ever meet him, tell him what the Empire done to our youngest kin. His name's Dalsin. Ain't a doubt in me mind he'd help you, so don't go forgettin' it!

@Boss 
Lobos: Wh-who do you think you are?! You honestly believe you'll get away with this?!

Lobos: Ugh... You fools... This doesn't end with me...

Lobos: Hmph. You'll come to regret this. Baron Raydrik will hear every detail!

@End 
Leif: ...It was a hard-fought victory, but we've taken control of Kerberos' Gate.
Raydrik: Nicely done. I'm impressed, truly. Such a shame to spoil your moment, but I must ask you to drop your weapons. Otherwise, I'll have to do something very ugly to this very pretty young woman.
Leif: Nanna?! ...Raydrik, you soulless parasite...
Nanna: Run, Lord Leif! Don't worry about me!
Leif: Damn...! Fine... Fine, I said! I'm putting my weapons down, so keep your hands off Nanna!
Raydrik: Hah! See, the young pup knows how to heel! Men, move in and chain the good Prince Leif! Then fan out and seize the rest of his forces!

Eyvel: Damn...! Little Leif got himself captured? Well, two can play at that game. I'm goin' in and waving the white flag—no doubt they'll arrest me too. I'll do what I can to protect the Little Lord from the inside. The rest of you, hightail it outta here and make ready to rescue him!
Finn: I suppose this was inevitable... We... have no choice but to retreat... Hold out for as long as you can, Lord Leif! On my honor, I will come for you!
Orsin: Dammit, Leif... Nothing to be done about it now, I guess. We're comin' after you, so don't you dare go dying first, you hear?!
Halvan: Well... We lasted until now. No one can say we didn't give it our all...
Safy: Gods above, watch over the prince...
Dagdar: Damn it all, the prince let 'imself be captured? Can't much stand it meself, but fer now, I've no choice but to head back to Mount Violdrake. This ain't the end, though: I'll round up me whole crew and we'll storm Munster!
/***EOF***/
@Opening 
Acting without pause or reprieve, the Liberation Army had broken through to Castle Leonster. They now stormed the gates with renewed fury. They fought for only one thing: the throne of Leonster. The kingdom's rebirth—Leif's greatest desire—was tantalizingly close to becoming reality...

@Intro 
Gustav: I trust we have an understanding, Xavier?
Xavier: ...Milord?
Gustav: An understanding that I'm the only general who will tolerate your worthless life. I could've killed you at any moment over these past several years, but I didn't. In fact, I made you my right-hand man. I trust you won't forget my generosity.
Xavier: Right-hand man? I... I've merely done what I could to aid you, nothing more.
Gustav: Yes, you've been quite the asset. And, if you'll recall, I've reciprocated that—I've granted your every request, within reason. Now, how many lords do you think would do that?
Xavier: Hah...
Gustav: What? Is something funny?! Oh, is there something else you want, princess? Well, let's hear it! Out with it, now!
Xavier: ...Unless you can bring back the dead, I don't think you can help me.
Gustav: Ah... Funny. Very funny. Though it doesn't compare to your greatest joke: your knighthood. Look at yourself—you're every bit the fiend as I. Worse, perhaps, as the rebels resent you as a turncoat and traitor. Even if you were to betray me and offer them your sword, they'd never accept you.
Xavier: I know that, dammit! I've prepared myself for this... After so long, perhaps I can finally show my face to them, even if it's from across the field of battle... Bah, enough! I'm just another soldier! I'm not afraid to face death!

Leif: August, are you certain this is a good idea, splitting our forces in two like this?
August: It's a necessary maneuver if we wish to claim the castle's treasure for ourselves. Besides, rescuing the hostages will require two teams working in tandem.
Leif: And how do we talk down General Xavier?
August: With great difficulty, I imagine. If you're determined to save him, however, I'd try having the hostages speak with the eight adjutants. Perhaps they'll see reason. Just take care that they're not spotted by Imperial soldiers—if Gustav's men catch sight of an escaped hostage, the plan is ruined.
Leif: Understood. All right, everyone! Take breaching positions! By day's end, the flag of the Gáe Bolg will fly from Castle Leonster once more!

@Battle 
Girl: Papa! Papa, stop it!
Lieutenant: Ah! You're all right! I'm so glad... Come along, now. With you back, there's no reason to fight for the damned Empire!

Woman: It's you!
Lieutenant: Y-You're safe?! Look, there's no reason for us to stick around here now. Let's go home...

Boy: Father! Oh, Father, I'm so sorry!
Lieutenant: H-How... How did you get here?! ...Actually, you know what? I couldn't care less what miracle brought you back to me. Let's just get outta here. Never look a gift horse in the mouth, son!

Woman: Stop it! Lower your weapon! I'm here! You don't have to fight anymore!
Lieutenant: Aw, really? I was just starting to enjoy it, too! I-I mean... If you're safe, that's all that matters. Let's see ourselves out!

Woman: HEY! Just what do you think you're doing?! I have half a mind to run off without you!
Lieutenant: Ah, it's not what you think! I was only helping the Empire because you'd been imprisoned—Hey, wait for me! Waaait!

Old man: I'm sorry for everything you've been through... All this, just for my sake...
Lieutenant: Ah, Father! You're alive! My kin is safe—that's all I know about life and all I need to know. Come on. Let's get out of here.

Woman: ...
Lieutenant: M-Mother?! Ah... It's all right, Mother. You don't need to say anything. I'm taking you home...

Girl: Paaapa! Heeey, Papa...!
Lieutenant: Y-You're all right! Take my hand, sweetie—Papa's taking you home.

@Recruit-Talk 
%Xavier,Leif
Leif: General Xavier?!
Xavier: Prince Leif... Mm, good. This is how it's supposed to be. I wanted to see you one last time. I've no regrets left, now.
Leif: General, what are you saying...?
Xavier: Ah... Need I spell it out? Regardless of my reasons, I betrayed the crown. I owe the kingdom a terrible debt, and that cannot be changed. But the guilt rests on my shoulders, and mine alone. My adjutants are innocent, and merely followed my orders. Their only crime was placing their trust in me. Spare them from your justice, I beg of you...
Leif: General... The way you've had to live... Please, raise your head. I'm the one that owes you a terrible debt. I fled the castle thinking it would protect the people, but all I really did was abandon them. I failed the highest duty of a ruler, and left you to shoulder the burden. For years, you've carried this weight alone...
Xavier: Prince Leif... Ah... I... I... I'm glad I lived to see this day.
Dorias: Xavier, I too must offer you my sincerest apologies. I had... erred in my judgment.
Xavier: Duke Dorias... Your words are more than I deserve. I... I'm...
Dorias: Prince Leif needs men like you, Xavier. It's time to come home. Serve him once again.
Xavier: Hah... If these old bones can do you any good, they're yours. To fight against the Empire is all I could want!

@Recruit-Battle 
Xavier: Let's get this over with, shall we?

Xavier: F-Forgive me, Lord Leif... Glory... to Leonster...!

Xavier: No... I cannot bear this disgrace... I can't stand it any longer...

@Boss
Gustav: Aaargh! You think I'll just roll over for you?! I'm not going down without a fight!

Gustav: Ugh... This rabble...? How...

@End 
Dryas: The last remains of the Empire's forces have been dealt with, Prince Leif. The castle is ours! After 14 long years, Leonster has returned to its rightful ruler!
Leif: Thank you, Dryas. I never would've made it here without your aid... I owe you much.
Dryas: You owe me nothing, Prince Leif.

Leif: Finn... We've finally come home. Together. It's been our dream for so long... Thank you for everything, Finn.
Finn: Lord Leif... I... haven't the words...

Miranda: Prince! Not to ruin your moment, but I insist you live up to your word!
Leif: Princess Miranda? Ah, I haven't forgotten. The liberation of Ulster.
Miranda: Splendid! Then we're on the same page. So get out there and make for the front lines! Quickly now, before we lose our chance!
Leif: What do you mean? Has something happened in Ulster?
Miranda: The citizens are plotting rebellion—but they don't stand a chance on their own. Help them, Prince Leif! Save the people of Ulster, as they once saved you!

August: I apologize for disturbing you, Prince, but someone wishes to speak with you. She's come from Ulster, and—Ah! Stop! You don't have leave to address the prince!
Woman: You're Prince Leif, right? Please, I beg of you, come to Ulster's aid!
Leif: Ulster? What are you talking about? Calm down, and explain everything from the beginning.
Woman: I think you already know Ulster's situation: the only reason the city is still standing is because it swears fealty to the Empire. But yesterday, things reached a breaking point, and the folk of Ulster took up arms and rebelled.
Leif: A rebellion... But the citizens of Ulster, fighting alone, don't stand a chance. Have the Knights of Ulster joined this rebellion?
Woman: I'm afraid not... We asked Count Conomor for his help many times, but all he said was to wait. Eventually, we grew tired of his excuses, and revolted without him and his knights. That rebellion swiftly ended in failure... Then the Empire retaliated, and killed Ulster's people by the dozens... Our city faces its darkest hour! Lord Leif, you're the only hope for our people!
Leif: ...I understand. I'll head for Ulster immediately.
Dryas: Prince Leif, we should discuss this! I share your feelings, but we simply don't have the manpower to aid Ulster! Before we do anything else, we should shore up our defenses and fortify Leonster.
August: I agree with Duke Dryas' assessment. A frontal assault against the Empire has little chance to succeed—don't engage them on their terms! Don't let yourself be lulled into a false sense of security just because you have your motherland back! Our victories thus far have been because of the Empire's own blunders—don't forget that!
Leif: Dryas! August! You would have me stand idly by and let the people of Ulster be wiped out?! They sheltered me when I was but an infant, and it was Queen Eithne's love and care that kept me alive! Father would never forgive me if I didn't repay their kindness! If you can't understand that, you can just wait in this damn castle!
August: How disappointing... I'd hoped you'd grown into a man, but you still think like a child.
Dryas: ...Very well, milord. We'll ride for Ulster. I'll take half our army now and lead a vanguard. You can lead the other half on the morrow, Prince. Are we in agreement, August?
August: Ah... Is this how...? ......No. I should lead the vanguard. Please, Dryas.
Dryas: The prince needs you. We've had our differences, you and I, but we wouldn't be here without you. ...After this, you must devote all your skills, all your intellect, to Prince Leif's cause.
August: ...... It shall be done.
Leif: Why not bring the whole army, Dryas? I'll go with you. We can get a head start if we lead our troops at the same time.
Dryas: Don't be so selfish, Prince! Our soldiers are exhausted! The hope of liberating Leonster was the only thing keeping them going! Just take a look around you! They sleep like the dead! But if their prince orders a march, they'll push themselves to keep going, even if it means their health. Would you put them through such a thing?
Leif: ...You've the right of it, Dryas. I apologize. Even so, will you have enough manpower?
Dryas: Ah, the motherland has provided that answer as well. Leonster's liberation will yield many able hands. Many who fought for the Empire did so against their will. Their numbers will make up for the absent half of our army.
Leif: Very well. I'll follow behind you as soon as I'm able. Take care of Ulster's people for me, Dryas!
Dryas: Of course. But before I depart, there's one other matter of import.
Leif: What is it? Has something happened?
Dryas: Leonster once again stands free. The kingdom has been reborn. As the heir to Leonster's throne, you are now truly a prince, in both deed and name. Bring glory to your title, and live up to your duties as ruler.
Leif: Yes, indeed. I'll strive to become a strong leader—but my fight isn't over until I rescue Eyvel. We have to seize Manster together, Dryas.
Dryas: Mm... I've tarried long enough. I must be off. May the gods bless and keep you until we meet again!

August: A few of the enemy soldiers have requested an audience with you, my prince. They claim to have been pressed into service against their will, and that we saved them from that fate.
Leif: Very well. Show them in.
Soldier: I suppose congratulations are in order, what with you takin' back the throne an' all. But you didn't just save Leonster, you saved her soldiers too! Even though we ain't nobles or anything! So, uh... We'd like you to have this. You've earned it.
/***EOF***/
@Opening 
Having breached Fort Nordrhein, the Liberation Army finally stood before the gates of Leonster. Yet their fight was far from over: a battalion of Imperial troops, even larger in number than the one at Fort Nordrhein, awaited them...

@Intro 
Gustav: I see you've yet to deal with the rebels, Nicolov. Explain yourself!
Nicolov: Ah... Kempf's bravado got the better of him, and he broke rank for his own personal glory. He ruined our chance to halt the rebels' advance... You have my sincerest apologies!
Gustav: Dammit, Kempf! I give him a second chance and this is how he repays me?! I should've sent him back to Castle Friege, like you said.
Nicolov: No, sir, it was me that was too lenient with him... But despite Kempf's failure, I'm not worried. I've stationed my squad of heavily-armored knights in front of the castle. Bishop Mua and his team of mages are also present. Next, we have Reinhardt and the Gelbenritter already approaching the enemy from behind. And if that wasn't enough, we have the Pegasus Corps of Silesse on stand-by, ready to assist us if things go south. With this much strength behind us, we could defeat any army!
Gustav: Indeed... I can find no fault in what you've outlined. Ah, one other thing. I forgot to mention it, but Bishop Saias will be gracing us with his presence. He happened to be traveling nearby, and graciously offered to lend us his power.
Nicolov: THE Bishop Saias? The military genius?!
Gustav: The one and only! His missive said he'd be arriving in a few hours.
Nicolov: Hah! This just isn't the rebels' lucky day, is it? In light of this, I'll shore up our defenses for the time being. Once the Lord Tactician arrives, we'll launch our assault immediately. Marquess Gustav, I bid you remain in the castle and await word of our victory.
Gustav: Very well. I'm counting on you, Nicolov!

August: I'll not lie to you, my prince: the enemy's formation is nearly flawless.
Leif: How so?
August: The main problem is the band of Silessian mercenaries positioned in the northwest. If we advance towards the castle, they'll cut us down from behind.
Leif: Why not divide our forces and send a team to attack them first?
August: We don't have the men to spare. Half our troops were left behind to defend against Reinhardt and his army striking from the rear.
Leif: So what should we do?
August: How willing to fight are the Silessian mercenaries? That is the question...

Nicolov: Do you understand the plan, Captain Misha?
Misha: ...Yeah, I got it.
Nicolov: Very good. And if you'll pardon the intrusion, there's one other matter...
Misha: That being?
Nicolov: I've heard tell your mother was killed by the traitor Sigurd during the civil war. Is that true?
Misha: ……
Nicolov: Ah. I take it that's why you became a mercenary fighting on behalf of the Empire?
Misha: This isn't about my mother. Back home, we've got lots of starving children. We're doing this for them. All we want is enough coin to buy bread and milk...
Nicolov: I see... Bah, that was a foolish thing to ask. Please, forget I said anything.
Misha: ...Then I'll be taking my leave.

@Battle 
Saias: Colonel Nicolov! It's been quite some time.
Nicolov: Oh, Bishop Saias! We've been waiting for you, sire!
Saias: How goes the battle?
Nicolov: The enemy fights with an... unexpected ferocity. We're having some slight difficulties. Ah, but having the Bishop of Flame at our side is sure to boost morale! Why, I can already see a marked improvement!
Saias: Have Commander Reinhardt and the Gelbenritter arrived yet?
Nicolov: I expect them to be here any moment—they'll descend upon the enemy's rear guard like vultures to carrion.
Saias: Then now is the perfect time to launch a full-frontal assault. Send word to the Silessian mercenaries.
Nicolov: It shall be done, sire!

Leif: W-What is the meaning of this?! The enemy's morale is suddenly sky-high!
Dorias: My greatest fear... Prince Leif, we cannot hesitate for even a moment—we must order a retreat at once!
Leif: What are you talking about?! Explain yourself, please!
Dorias: Saias, the Royal Bishop of House Velthomer and a military genius, has taken the field. As long as he commands the enemy, we don't stand a chance!
Leif: There's been such a person in the Empire all along?
August: Ah... I'll give you the short version: he's the son of the late General Aida, who was a close friend and confidante of Emperor Arvis. After she passed away—under most puzzling circumstances, I might add—he was raised in a Bragian monastery.
Leif: ...I understand. But it's not that simple—we stand to lose countless soldiers if I call for a retreat now! What should I do...?

Soldier: Now's our chance to wipe out the rebels! Lower the bridge over the river!

Mueller: Damn... I didn't think it would take this long to get here. There's no time to waste—order the whole army to charge!
Soldier: General Muller? What happened to Commander Reinhardt?
Mueller: He's left for Conote with Princess Ishtar. I'm not privy to the details, but Her Highness was acting strangely... I'd imagine he was worried about her.
Soldier: He left to babysit the princess instead of coming to battle? What kind of soldier is he?!
Mueller: A better one than you'll ever be! Now shut your mouth—you're insulting the chain of command!
Soldier: Agh! F-Forgive me, General, I meant nothing by it!
Mueller: Still, this IS going to make things harder on us...

Ishtar: Bishop Saias, is this where you've gone?
Saias: Hm? Princess Ishtar? And Commander Reinhardt, too? Whatever is the matter? You look panicked!
Ishtar: It's Prince Julius... He's fallen terribly ill! He's running a high fever, and seems to be in great pain...
Saias: The prince has always had a frail constitution, but his health has been declining as of late... What of the Loptian bishops? Can they do anything?
Ishtar: I won't allow it! As long as I draw breath, they'll not come near him!
Saias: Even Archbishop Manfroy?! Why?
Ishtar: Shouldn't you know that better than anyone, Royal Bishop Saias? Please, you have to see things my way!
Saias: ...I understand. I'll see if I can be of some help. Where is His Highness?
Ishtar: Back in Conote, in my chambers.
Saias: Very well... Let us be off, Princess Ishtar!

Soldier: What? Bishop Saias is leaving for Conote? Not good... We have to shore up our defenses! Destroy that bridge!

@Recruit-Talk
%Karin,Misha
Karin: Captain Misha?! Hey, last I checked, Silesse wasn't all buddy-buddy with the Empire! Why are you on their side?!
Misha: I have something to protect. Simple as that.
Karin: ...And what would that be?
Misha: None of your damn business, that's what. Off with you, now! The battle is just getting started!

@Recruit-Visit 
Sara: ……
Bishop: Ah, Sara, where do you think you're going?
Sara: ……
Bishop: Oh, are you with the Liberation Army? Did this young woman say something to you? Please, don't put too much stock into it. The girl sometimes blurts out the strangest nonsense... She's a bit touched in the head, I'm afraid.
Sara: ...Go...
Bishop: Go? Go where?”
Sara: ...Go... I will go with them...
Bishop: B-But they said they were with the army—Ah, Sara, wait!
Sara: Go... Take me with you, you have to take me with you...

@Boss 
Nicolov: As if you could defeat me! Tch... Have at you!

Nicolov: Ugh... Not bad... Guess I couldn't do it... after all...

Moore: Loptous, O Lord God... I give myself... to your new era...

Mueller: Now you'll see why the Gelbenritter are so feared!

Mueller: Ergh... It's unthinkable... We stand... defeated...

Mueller: How naive...

Saias: Sheathe your weapon. You cannot best me.

@Recruit-Battle
Misha: Get out of my way!

Misha: Ugh... Deet'var, my beloved mother... I'll see you soon...

Misha: I thank you for your mercy, but I still have to fight.

@End 
Dorias: We've managed to capture the castle gates, but many more foes doubtless await us inside. Don't let your guard down, Prince Leif.
Leif: Then we've little choice but to eliminate them all at once, excessive though it may seem. The man inside, Marquess Gustav, is King Bloom's right-hand man—and he's been ruling Leonster with an iron fist. How many people have died at his whim...?
August: Kill Gustav and hang his head from the castle gates. Don't waste your mercy on him—you must fulfill your duty as ruler!

Dorias: Prince Leif, we've captured the commander of the Silessians. What shall we do with her?
Leif: Let her through, please. I want to have a look at her. Is it true you're the commander of the Silessian forces?
Misha: This is a waste of time... I don't expect mercy from you. Just kill me and get it over with!
Dorias: This isn't going to work, Prince. The Pegasus Knights of Silesse value honor above all. After leading her troops to their death, the shame would be too much to bear, especially as a prisoner. We should grant her death, as she wishes—that would be mercy.
Karin: Duke Dorias, don't say something so stupid! Captain Misha, you have something to protect, don't you? How will you do that if you die here?! Those poor kids in Silesse are depending on you! You haven't thought about them!
Misha: Ah! ...How do you know about that?
Karin: I asked one of your troops. I saw her lying on the battlefield and tried to help... that was when she told me. I didn't know how many people were going hungry in the places where the Empire is still in charge... So many children, thin as a blade of grass... Just wasting away... She told me she'd hired on with the Empire just to buy food.
Misha: ……
August: Lady Misha, don't you see the irony? It's almost funny, in a macabre way. By helping the Empire, you're sacrificing the children of another country to save the children of your own country. The Empire is conducting child hunts in Thracia—and it won't be long until they do the same in Silesse. Who will protect Silesse's children then?
Misha: Child hunts...? What in blazes are you talking about?
Leif: So you don't know... Then I want you to live a little longer and see the truth for yourself. I sentence you to live—to bear witness to our pain and suffering!
Misha: ...I'm sorry, I'm a little overwhelmed, here. Just give me some time. I need to think...
/***EOF***/
@Opening 
...Half a year has passed. The army of House Friege, led by Barat, has waged a relentless onslaught against Leonster, seeking to recapture the castle. Leif's Liberation Army has fought well, but has been gradually worn down and forced into a small corner of the castle—with no way out. Everyone could see it was only a matter of time until Castle Leonster fell...

@Intro 
Reinhardt: How goes the war, Lord Barat?
Barat: Ah, Reinhardt. I've been waiting for you. You've brought my reinforcements, I trust?
Reinhardt: A battalion is on its way here from Ulster. They should be arriving shortly.
Barat: Hmm... Yes, that should do it. We've already seized most of the castle. These few halls are the rebels' last refuge.
Reinhardt: Normally that would be good news, but...
Barat: Hmm? What do you mean? Is something amiss?
Reinhardt: This siege has gone on for half a year, yet Leonster still stands. King Bloom is... displeased. I don't mean to speak out of turn, especially to one of my elders, but... I'd suggest you hurry.
Barat: ...You're not telling me anything I don't already know.
Reinhardt: The king's temper worsens by the day. The loss of Prince Ishtore at Fort Melgen has been taking its toll on him...
Barat: What of the Isaachian rebels?
Reinhardt: I hear they've already crossed the border into the Thracian Peninsula. But they're not entering unopposed: Cowen and the 26th Battalion, Vampa and her sisters, as well as Lady Tine and her unit of mages, are all moving to intercept them. Still, the rebels were able to best Lady Liza... I fear the coming battle will be a most arduous one indeed.
Barat: And what does His Highness himself intend to do?
Reinhardt: I believe the king plans to personally take command of the troops at Ulster. Should the Isaachian rebels break through to the city, I imagine he'll send for you. But if Leonster should still remain in enemy hands by that time, your future will be... most uncertain.
Barat: Ah... Very well. You've made yourself clear.
Reinhardt: Then I must be returning to Conote. If you'll excuse me...

Barat: You! Get over here!
Soldier: Uh... Y-Yes, sir?
Barat: Send word to all the troops: we're launching an all-out assault on Castle Leonster! There will be no retreat! Fight with all your soul if you want to live!

August: ...The enemy has begun their assault, Prince Leif.
Leif: Can we mount a defense?
August: I've already ordered as much. Everyone that can stand upright is fortifying the castle. If we fall here, we have nowhere to run.
Leif: We've done quite well against such an enormous army, considering everything. Holding out for half a year, under siege... But we'll reach our limit before long.
August: Bah, you've become overfond of such feeble whining. It's unseemly for a prince of your stature. If you're not willing to fight to the last breath, you're betraying the memory of all who have sacrificed themselves to get us this far! Don't forget the bigger picture! We're keeping the bulk of the enemy's forces busy here, which frees Seliph's army to march through Thracia unimpeded! You mustn't give up before we're able to merge our forces!
Leif: I'm sorry, August. I know... And I do want to meet Lord Seliph myself, but how else do you expect me to feel, having to watch our soldiers die one by one?
August: If it pains you so, that's all the more reason to honor their memory by fighting to the last man!

@Boss
Barat: You nuisances have cost me my rank!

Barat: Ugh... So this is... where...

@Battle 
August: Prince Leif, the Friege army has captured the throne! Our troops are fleeing en masse! Our war... is over...

@End 
August: Prince Leif, the enemy is retreating!
Leif: What?! Why would they do that?
August: Because Seliph's army has arrived! They've already surrounded Castle Ulster, and are mounting an assault as we speak! This is our salvation! We've done it! We're saved!
Leif: Truly...? Lord Seliph... has... Hold a moment, August. How do you know this?
August: Ah, listen to me go on... I've forgotten myself. Just now, an emissary of Lord Seliph arrived. He awaits you inside the other chamber.
Leif: Lord Seliph's emissary?! I must meet him! Please, send him in!
Diarmuid: So we meet at last, Prince Leif. I'm a soldier in the service of Lord Seliph. I go by Diarmuid.
Leif: Diarmuid?! But that would make you... Are you Nanna's older brother?!
Diarmuid: I am.

Leif: Was there anything else you needed to tell me on behalf of Lord Seliph?
Diarmuid: No, sire.
Leif: Then now that that's done, it's my honor to introduce you to Nanna.
Nanna: Diarmuid... Brother...
Diarmuid: Nanna?! Nanna, it's really you!
Nanna: Yes.
Diarmuid: I'm so sorry it took me such a long time to find you... If I had just known you were here from the start, I would've dropped everything to be by your side. I only finally learned of you through Lord Lewyn...
Nanna: Lord Lewyn...?
Diarmuid: He's Lord Seliph's tactician. There's nothing the man doesn't know... And he told me about Mother, too... How she was trying to reach Isaach, but vanished in the Aed Desert...
Nanna: Ah! She's... not with you? I... I see... I had resigned myself to the fact that I'd likely never see her again, but even so... Mother... Oh, gods...
Diarmuid: I'm sorry, Nanna. Mother was traveling all that way for me...
Nanna: No, don't think like that. I used to resent her for leaving, but now that I'm older, I understand how Mother felt... All women feel the same deep love for their children. I've seen as much...
Diarmuid: I haven't given up, Nanna. Lord Lewyn said Mother was still alive. We can search for her together when the war is finally over. So... don't cry anymore, OK? Prince Leif, I have a request, if I may. Would you permit me to transfer into your army? I'll ask Lord Seliph for his leave to do so once we rejoin him.
Leif: Of course! I'd be glad to have you along to support Nanna. I'll explain the situation to Lord Seliph.
/***EOF***/
@Intro 
Zaom: Hmm... The fort is in terrible danger, and it only seems to be getting worse...
Soldier: ...We have word that the rebels have already gained control of the gates, sir.
Zaom: Hmph! I suppose it was only a matter of time until the rebels came to free the prisoners. Well, we're ready for it. If worse comes to worst, go ahead with our... last resort. Do I make myself clear?
Soldier: Clear as a vial of Pure Water, sir.

Leif: So this is the Imperial prison camp...
August: As I understand it, most of the soldiers captured throughout Thracia are sent here. It's extremely likely that troops captured from our army are in this very camp—yet this chance will be squandered if you don't hurry.
Leif: What do you mean?
August: Have you already forgotten? We've a report that clearly states a battalion of Loptian mages are en route.
Leif: Could it be the Schwarze Rosen...? Well, let's not stay and find out! We must make haste to rescue the prisoners!

@Battle 
Schwarze Rosen Soldier: Soldiers of Leonster yet remain here...? Hah! Now they'll witness the sublime power of Loptous!

@Boss 
Zaom: You can still walk away! Just go home!

Zaom: Gah! No... Not... like... this...

@End 
Julius: Hmm... It's not enough that Bloom is struggling to hold Conote against the Isaachian rebels—now the Friege army has lost this fort as well. What a spectacular family of failures... House Friege is a joke.
Ishtar: I... I apologize on behalf of my kin...
Julius: Heh, heh... You're hardly at fault, Ishtar. There's no need for you to apologize. Yet having said that, I can't allow you to join the battle in Conote yourself. I... need you with me.
Ishtar: As you wish... But where are we to go instead?
Julius: Miletos. Hilda has been pestering me to come.
Ishtar: Mother...? What ever for?
Julius: To see the results of her harvest, of course. I must say, she's been quite delighted with governing the city since I gave her the throne.
Ishtar: Mother... has... Do you mean to say... she's been conducting child hunts?
Julius: You know, Miletos' climate is quite pleasant this time of year. I think it would be an ideal place for two people to spend time together. Yes, that sounds perfect... I'll buy you a dress of fine silk, Ishtar. And what else would go nicely with it...? Ah, I know just the thing! A ruby tiara! Hilda is already arranging a most splendid banquet for us, I'm sure. Ishtar, you can dress up and take everyone by surprise with your captivating beauty. I'm dearly looking forward to it... Oh, Ishtar, I'm so glad to have you by my side...
Ishtar: L-Lord Julius...
Julius: Ishtar... That man, Reinhardt... I don't want him near us anymore.
Ishtar: Reinhardt?! He's watched over me since I was a child! I rely on him every day!
Julius: I don't care! I hate the way he looks at you! If I see him, I'll pluck out his eyes myself!
Ishtar: Ah...! I... I understand... Forgive me, but I must ask this of you: let Reinhardt go home. Please.
Julius: Heh, heh... Very well, we'll leave him be. Let's be off! Oh, Ishtar... how I love you!
/***EOF***/
@Opening
Giving chase to Raydrik, Leif set out for Munster to rescue his companions. But while making his way along the shore, he passed near a small settlement: a coastal village by the name of Iz...

@Intro 
August: Bucks, is this kind of body count really necessary? We're here to make coin, not gut everything that moves.
Bucks: Look 'ere, smart-aleck. We got us a nice division of labor goin'. I don't tell you how to plan your strategies and whatnot, and you don't tell me 'ow to go about plunderin'. Oh, and if it's them Freeblade folk yer worried about, we already saw to them. The boss tipped off the Empire that the Leonster boy was hidin' with 'em.
August: Leonster boy...? Wait, you mean Leif, the prince?! Are you certain of this?
Bucks: Sure am. The boss grabbed one of the village folk an' used his talents with a knife to loosen 'is tongue. Stubborn fella, though—mighta survived if he'd talked sooner.
August: He resorted to torture, did he...?
Bucks: Hah, yer one to talk! Boss says yer the one who taught'im everythin' he knows about interrogatin'! There's a reason you ain't with the Church no more, mate.
August: Dammit, Lifis... You've become more trouble than you're worth. It's time we parted ways. I just need to make contact with the Leonster heir, and then Lifis is disposable. Now, how should I go about this...? Well, before anything else, I must alert my benefactor...

^start 
Leif: Commander, over here! That village is being raided!
Eyvel: Hmm... That's Lifis' crew, by the look of it. They've been quiet as a mouse for a while, but I guess they move fast.
Leif: And we have to move faster! We cannot stand by and allow this to happen!

Leif: Finn, look here! That village is being raided!
Finn: What's this? These pirates answer to a man named Lifis, as I recall—but they've been quiet for so long, I thought they might've disbanded.
Leif: Seems they have a macabre idea of a reunion, then. Ready yourself, Finn. We cannot stand by and allow this to happen!
^end 

@Recruit-Visit 
Ronan’s Mother: Ronan, stop! Ronan!
Ronan: Ma, I can't stay outta this any longer. I'll go and fight alongside— Oh, you must be with the Freeblades! I want to join y'all! I'm good enough with a bow and I can get around pretty fast. I won't hold you back none.
Ronan’s Mother: B-But you've never been in a real fight like this before...! You that eager to leave yer mother alone in this world?!
Ronan: That don't matter none! Every battle is somebody's first, right? Guess this'll be mine. I mean, maybe you can stand holing up in here an' waiting to die, but I sure can't!

@Visit 
Young Man: You lot just had to play hero, didn't you? Now this whole village will be razed by the pirates in revenge! They'll make one big, bloody example outta us! What are we supposed to do?!
Young Woman: How can you say something so cruel, Brother? These people are puttin' their lives on the line fer us, and you've got the nerve to complain?!
Young Man: You're too naïve! The pirates would've killed a few of us, sure, but they had no reason to hunt down everybody! Except these idiots couldn't leave well enough alone!

Young Woman: ...I'm sorry 'bout my brother. He wasn't always like this. By way of apology, take this magic trinket. Not sure what it does, but maybe it'll be of use to you. It's about time somebody showed those pirates what it's like to fight for THEIR lives for a change!

Man: These pirates grow bolder by the day! Just recently, I heard that a cleric fleeing Tarrah was taken prisoner by 'em! Mayhap you can help the poor dear, eh? Here, take this for your trouble. If you manage to find her, do send word that she's all right.

@Boss 
Bucks: You have any idea who yer dealin' with? I'm THE Bucks, a beast born from a life at sea!

Bucks: Ugh... You'll regret this someday... I... deserved to die at sea...

Bucks: That's it? No collectin' the bounty on my head or nothin'? Well, I'll be! I'm leavin' my piratin' days behind me. Can't leave the sea behind me, though—reckon I'll become a fisherman. Clear skies to you, Freeblades.

@End 
August: Lord Leif, I presume?
Leif: ...And you are?
August: August, at your service. I am a priest of Bragi on pilgrimage.
Leif: Is there something you need from me? With respect, I don't have time to spare on talk.
August: Neither do I. I take it you're headed to the Corsair Isles to nip this pirate threat in the bud?
Leif: Indeed. If we leave them be, it's only a matter of time until the scum attack Iz again. Besides, I hear they're also keeping a cleric captive there.
August: I see. In that case, allow me to be your navigator. I can guide you to the isles.
Leif: What? Why would a priest know the way to the Corsair Isles?
August: This old man has many surprises left in him yet, I'll tell you that much. Still, the decision is yours.
/***EOF***/
@Opening 
Years ago, it was Raydrik's betrayal at the River Thracia that doomed Manster. Mere months later, Raydrik would betray Thracia to the Empire, allowing them to wrest control of North Thracia from Travant. For betraying Manster to Thracia, and then betraying Thracia to the Empire, Raydrik was dubbed the "Twofold Traitor." Now, having crossed the same river where his grandfather had met his end, Leif approached Raydrik's stronghold, Castle Manster. There, emboldened by news of Leif's victory, the citizens seized the opportunity to flee. However, they were caught in the crossfire of two forces: the Magi, led by Ced, who were trying to defend the civilians, and the Knights of Manster, who were determined to stop them. The region had become a war zone, and the fighting grew worse with each day...

@Intro 
Woman: Sir Ced! Raydrik has found our last safehouse! There's nowhere for us to shelter the children now!
Ced: Blast! Would that I could escort them out of here myself, but that would leave our rebellion without a leader. There just isn't anyone up to the task of getting the children to safety on their own...
Saias: I could carry out that duty, if you'd allow it.
Ced: Who goes there?! Who... Who in blazes are you?
Saias: A simple traveler, nothing more. I heard about the fighting that had broken out here. If you wish to spirit the children away from this foul place, perhaps I could help. Or are you unwilling to trust me?
Ced: Hmm... I sense your heart is enveloped in a gentle wind. You don't seem to mean us harm. Just who are you, exactly? You wear the robes of the royal priesthood...
Saias: We haven't the time for me to explain my life story, I'm afraid, but I give you my word that I'll see the children to safety. You can either trust me or not. Choose now.
Ced: ...Very well. I have little alternative but to believe you. Ah, one more thing. When you flee with the children, please, you must make sure this sword escapes the city as well.
Saias: A sword...? Ah! I'll gladly smuggle it out of Manster, of course, but do you realize what this weapon is? It's Bragi Sword! I'd heard it was being kept in Castle Manster, under heavy guard.
Ced: It was, but I saw to that. You see, Raydrik is protected by an enchantment upon his own blade, the Loptous Sword. Bragi's Blade is the only thing that can breach its foul magic.
Saias: I see... So what would you have me do with it?
Ced: The blade can only be wielded by a swordsman of holy blood. A rebel leader, Prince Leif, is marching his Liberation Army here as we speak. He can use it—I want you to deliver it to him.
Saias: I understand. I'll see that it reaches his hands.
Ced: You've my gratitude. Oh, Sir Priest! You must give me your name, at least...
Saias: Ah, forgive my rudeness. I am... I am Saias of House Velthomer.

Raydrik: What?! Those peasants dare to flee Manster?!
Soldier: I'm afraid so, sire. And it seems the Magi have been sheltering children—they're making a run for it right now.
Raydrik: That's unacceptable! Those cattle are the only bargaining chips we have to get the Empire to overlook this mess! Farden, cut them down in the streets! Slay every last little brat! Let's show every damn peasant in Manster what the price of fleeing is!
Farden: Leave it to me, milord.
Alfan: You called, Lord Raydrik?
Raydrik: Alfan, I want you to take command of the castle gates. Guard them with your life! I hear Leonster's stray mutt is marching on Manster, and the Magi have already breached the castle once... They must not be allowed to seize control of the gates as well!
Alfan: Of course, sire. We'll take every measure to secure the city!

Leif: We've reached Manster at last...
August: ...It appears the fighting between the Magi and the Knights of Manster has broken out into the streets. Things have escalated since last we were here. The knights seem weaker than before, but they're still a force to be reckoned with. Without the Magi's aid, I fear seizing Manster will be nigh-impossible. ...Oh? What's this? Look, there's movement around the city! Whole groups of children are fleeing Manster!
Leif: What?! There's no time to lose! Let's move!

@Battle 
Altena: What's the situation in Manster, Coruta?
Coruta: Nothing unusual yet, but if our intelligence is accurate, there should be massive troop movements very shortly. And in all that chaos, we'll have the perfect chance to strike...
Altena: But such a plan risks dragging the civilians into our fighting ... Even if we don't conquer Manster, as long as it's liberated from the Empire, we'll have dealt a tremendous blow to our mutual enemy. Why risk innocent lives when we could simply join forces with the rebels and still do just as much damage to the Empire?
Coruta: Ah... But this is a command directly from His Majesty...
Altena: ...Then let me speak to Father. I can convince him.
Coruta: Bah, Lady Altena is too naive... We'll never have another opportunity like this to seize Manster for ourselves. His Majesty is always lenient with the princess, but even he won't indulge her this time. Our best chance is to strike Manster now, just as His Majesty ordered...

Soldier: You wished to see me, Lord Alfan?
Alfan: Ah, yes... I seem to have misplaced my grimoire.
Soldier: Oh gods, again?
Alfan: Hm? Speak up, I can't hear you!
Soldier: Uh, it was nothing... So which book have you lost this time?
Alfan: My tome of Venin—you know the one, it's what allows me to strike our foes from great distances. Should be easy to find—it's very distinctive. Bound in leather, dyed black as midnight on a moonless night, every page written with snake venom... Ah, it's magnificent!
Soldier: I'm looking, I'm looking, hold your horses... Ohhh, I hope it's easier to find than the last one...

Soldier: Lord Alfan, I found it!
Alfan: Really? Splendid! Now, watch as I unleash my horrifying magic upon the unsuspecting rebels!
Soldier: Well, before you make with the horrifying magic, maybe you should learn to tidy up your room first...

Coruta: Well, well! All of Manster is in disarray, just like our intelligence said it would be! Now's our chance! We couldn't ask for a better way to take the city ourselves!
Altena: Hold! If we strike now, it's the civilians who'll suffer most! Perhaps I could talk them into surrendering...
Coruta: These are the king's orders, dammit! It's useless to keep stalling, even if you're the princess!
Altena: I'm in command here!
Coruta: And this is MY battalion! Besides, the king already sent word to attack Manster even if you refused!
Altena: He did...?
Coruta: You can just stay here and watch, if it means that much to you. But my battalion is moving in, with or without you!
Altena: Coruta, wait! Coruta! No... I must convince Father to halt this attack...

Alfan: *Pant... pant...* Wh-What manner of heathen are you?!
Ced: I am Ced of the Magi. We've taken control of the city, save for one wing of the castle. Surrender now and I'll spare your life.
Alfan: Oh, how droll! But I won't fall for such an obvious bluff!

@Recruit-Talk 
%Leif,Ced
Leif: Aren't you... Sir Ced?!
Ced: Prince Leif?! Hah, so you've finally arrived!
Leif: Sorry to have kept you waiting. I never did get a chance to thank you for rescuing me, Prince Ced...
Ced: Ah... So my secret is out, I see. How did you learn that I'm a prince? Did Karin tell you?
Leif: She did. If what she said is true, you stayed behind here to protect the people of Manster instead of returning to your native Silesse. I'm sorry I've proven to be such a worthless prince... Everything you've gone through all comes down to my own weakness. I had a chance to liberate the city when last I was here, but all I could do was run. That was unforgivable of me.
Ced: There's no need to apologize, Prince. It's no fault of yours—my plan was doomed from the start. I had intended to liberate much more of the city and its people, but not even my holy weapon, the Tome of Forseti, could overcome the power of Raydrik's Loptous Sword. Because of that one miscalculation, I lost many of the very people I'd come here to save. I'm to blame for all of this, not you.
Leif: Even so... I envy you, Prince Ced. The people hail you as a hero, and they're not wrong. You're everything that I'm not: holy blood runs strong in your veins, and you can wield the very weapon your namesake once used. And I... I have nothing. I'm a world apart from the likes of you and Lord Seliph. I... I'm no Crusader...
Ced: Prince Leif... How could you say such a thing?! Being a Crusader means more than just happening to inherit the right kind of blood. For centuries, Jugdral was ruled by the Loptr Church and its Empire—the Crusaders were the ones that overthrew their rule. And that's exactly what you've been doing for a whole year now, Prince Leif! You've fought and bled to liberate the people of Thracia. You walked a path that would've broken lesser men. But on you marched, waging your own holy war to free countless souls from the grip of the Empire! Neither Lord Seliph nor I have any right to call ourselves better than you. You're the youngest of us. You spent your childhood being hunted. And you've never stopped fighting! In fact, you've been fighting for longer than any of us have! If you're not a Crusader, who the hell is?! Take heart, Prince Leif! Your soul sings with the voice of Njorun! You've done her legacy proud!
Leif: Prince Ced... I don't know how to thank you. I look at you and Lord Seliph, see the scale of what you've accomplished, see the enormity of your armies... and then I think of my own mistakes, of the people I've failed, and I feel so... small. Small and weak. Like a sickly child standing beside giants. Heh. Perhaps I am still a child, in many ways.
Ced: Then that would mean I, holy weapon and all, needed to be rescued by a child. Do you mean to insult me?
Leif: Ah...! N-No, that's not what—
Ced: Hah! I was only joking, Prince Leif. Though this is hardly the time to fool around... Ahem. Back to the matter at hand. My men and I have Raydrik pinned down in a small wing of the castle—with no way for him to escape. Alas, there's a complication: he's using the few remaining children in the castle dungeon as hostages. The Magi don't have the manpower to both storm the castle and keep fighting the Knights of Manster in the streets. Prince Leif, will you lend me your strength and lead your forces into the castle while the Magi keep order in the city?
Leif: It would be my honor to fight alongside you! I've a score to settle with Raydrik.
Ced: How fitting that the Twofold Traitor will meet his end at the hands of the Prince of Leonster ... Gods be with you, Prince Leif!

@Battle-Talk 
%Leif,Saias
Leif: A... priest?! You're the one that led the children to safety?
Saias: Indeed. I did so on behalf of Sir Ced of the Magi. Thank you for taking us in.
Leif: Think nothing of it! If anything, you deserve all the thanks for seeing the children out of the city. Leave the rest of the fighting to us. You should get somewhere safe, Father.
Saias: Ah... Now that I get a good look at you, I take it you're Prince Leif?
Leif: That I am. How did you know?
Saias: There's no time. Listen closely: you must take this sword with you, and keep it close at hand. This is Bragi Sword. You'll need it if you're to defeat Raydrik.
Leif: Bragi Sword?! You're... giving this to ME?
Saias: Make no mistake: Sir Ced wanted you to have this. I gave him my word that I would deliver it to you. It's a sacred blade that can only be wielded by someone of holy blood—but Sir Ced knows little of swordplay himself, you see.
Leif: A sacred blade... The holy weapon of Bragi himself...! The gods themselves must have sent this sword as an act of providence... I'll see that it meets Raydrik's neck before long. Thank you for everything, Father.
Saias: I'm... just happy to have played my part. But remember: when the time comes to face Raydrik, you must bring that sword with you—it's the only thing that can breach the enchantment which protects him. May we meet again, Lord Leif.

@Battle 
Leif: How can this be?! The Magi were... wiped out?!
August: Without their leader, the Magi's ranks have collapsed. We don't have the forces to seize Manster on our own... The city is Thracia's for the taking...

@Boss 
Coruta: Heh, heh, heh... You've only got yourself to blame! You're dead!

Coruta: Glory... to... Thracia! Ugh...

Coruta: When we meet again, you'll regret not finishing me off!

Alfan: You! How did you make it this far?! 

Alfan: Ugh ... Not yet... I won't... die... yet...

Alfan: You're... sparing me?! Well, I'm... quite grateful.

Farden: Witness the fury of the Knights of Manster, you damned rebels!

Farden: Ugh... But I was... supposed to...

Farden: You have my gratitude. If you'll excuse me...

@End 
August: It certainly wasn't easy, but the gates of Castle Manster are ours, Prince Leif. How shall we proceed from here?
Leif: The Magi can keep order in the streets while we storm the castle. Raydrik has fled inside to make his last stand—and he means to use the captive children as hostages.
August: Then we have our work cut out for us... Ah, there's something you should be aware of, my prince. I have intelligence stating that Raydrik's blade, the Loptous Sword, is enchanted with dark magic that shields him from all harm. If we're to defeat him, we must prepare some kind of countermeasure before we enter the castle.
Leif: Ah, I'm one step ahead of you. I received a sword, Bragi Sword, from the priest that fled Manster with the children. It's a holy weapon that's every bit the equal of Raydrik's blade—and more importantly, it can breach the magic protecting him.
August: Hmm... That's quite fortuitous, for once. Just make absolutely certain you have Bragi's Blade in hand before the next battle, my prince!
Leif: What will you do now, Father?
Saias: I have nowhere to return to. There's only one thing I can do now: I shall go to the Tower of Bragi and pray for guidance.
Leif: ...Can you tell me nothing more of your circumstances? How exactly did you end up here?
Saias: I can't say. Not now.
Leif: I see. I don't suppose there's any chance you could stay with us a little longer? We could use your help liberating Manster.
Saias: I've seen enough of battle for one lifetime. I already fear that my heart may have grown too accustomed to warfare... But know that I'll be praying for your good fortune from the Tower of Bragi. Be well, Lord Leif.

/***EOF***/
@Opening
Dagdar: ...Tanya, it's time fer you to go. Make a break fer it on yer own—I'll keep any of 'em from followin' ya.
Tanya: No way, Papa! I leave when you leave!
Dagdar: You stick around here, you'll just be a burden. Now just listen to yer old man and don't give me lip!
Tanya: I... I know I wouldn't be much help, but—
Gomes: Aw, don't tell me you were thinkin' of leavin' the party already. Nope, the only way you two are gettin' out of here is in a casket.
Dagdar: Listen up, Gomes! I got no reason to fight you an' yer boys. Think about this afore you do somethin' rash.
Gomes: Naw, it's too late fer you to be makin' excuses, Dagdar! The soil itself don't want us here! Nothin' grows! Tryin' to till a field is like sawing through rock! All I wanted was a full belly, but you let that wench Eyvel cheat you outta the good land! She's got you wrapped around her little finger! You so desperate that you'd let everybody starve just to get lucky? Shame on you, old man!
Dagdar: What'd you say?! Hmph, you talk big fer a glorified errand-boy! You ain't never known real hardship—just my petty chores! You know why? Cuz I knew I could never trust you with more! Fact is, I could barely trust you with my laundry, junior! But all these years, I still gave you a roof over yer head...! Fine! You want yerself a fight so bad, you got one!

@Battle-Talk 
%Osian,Tanya
Osian: Tanya! You're safe! You... really had me worried there, you moron!
Tanya: Who you calling a moron, moron?! Nobody asked you to fret over me!
Osian: Would it kill you to show a little gratitude? If we'd showed up any later, you'd just be a stain on the floor!
Tanya: What?! You're the one who started this argument! I hadn't said one word to you when you started yelling at me! Ugh, you're always like this! Gloomy little Osian, always ready to pick a fight... Whatever I lack for gratitude, you lack for manners! Just this once, you could stand to be even a little friendly...
Osian: H-Hey! Wait, wait, don't cry, OK? I... I just... I mean, I was really... ...I'm glad you're safe. Er... So, anyhow... Uh... Yeah.

%Leif,Dagdar
Leif: Dagdar! You're all right!
Dagdar: Well, I'll be... Prince Leif! Heh, an' here I was the one who was supposed to be rescuin' you! Sorry fer draggin' ya into my mess... So, where's Eyvel? She head back to Fiana, or is she with you?
Leif: ……
Dagdar: Prince... What happened?
Leif: Eyvel is... still in Munster. We... didn't have the forces to rescue her. I couldn't save her...
Dagdar: Wh-What?! Dammit, Leif! Are you a real prince or just a child?! How the hell could ya just leave her?!
Leif: There was nothing I could do! I... I wasn't strong enough, wasn't fast enough, I... With my meager strength, what good am I to anyone? What should I do? What CAN I do?
Dagdar: ……
Leif: If... If I'd just been a little stronger... If I had done things differently, maybe—
Dagdar: Dammit, Prince! Yer puttin' too much of the blame on yerself.
Leif: But—
Dagdar: Look, I'm sorry fer yellin' at you just now. I... I wasn't expecting things to go so wrong, an' I took it out on you. Truth be told, Prince, yer tougher'n most. You tried to rescue her, right? Ya made the effort, and it ain't yer fault it didn't work out.
Leif: D-Dagdar...
Dagdar: Sure, you kids are goin' through some rough times right now, no doubt. But quit yer worryin', cuz I'll be helpin' ya from now on! It ain't like anybody can replace Eyvel, but you still got a long way to go before this war is lost. An' hey, captured ain't dead, right? We'll get Eyvel back—together.

@Boss 
Gomes: Dammit, don't you dare underestimate the Great Gomes! I'll shrug off whatever you got!

Gomes: D-Dagdar, boss... I'm sorry... But everybody was starvin' to death, an' you were too stupid to see it...

Gomes: I just wanted to help... To have enough to eat, you know? I'll find a way, boss... I'll find a way!

@End 
Leif: I pity Dagdar and his men, truly, but... Why couldn't they just earn their food through honest labor?
August: And where would they labor? Their very land was infertile. Many of these men were children of Thracian farmers. Abandoned by their parents, they turned to banditry out of sheer necessity. Their choice was simple: steal or starve.
Leif: Then they had cowards for parents, to have forsaken their children so!
August: And how would you know? You've been on the run for your whole life, true, but you've never known the pains of hunger. Just where do you think your food came from during all those days you were fleeing from the Empire?
Leif: Where my food came from? I... don't know. I never had to worry about hunger.
August: Then you were fortunate to have had such loyal allies and retainers, but it has left you lacking the perspective to truly understand how the common folk suffer. South Thracia is a land dominated by mountains—steep, imposing crags dot the landscape, and a cliff lies around every corner. By nature, the land demands severity and discipline from all who live in it. Farmers work themselves to the bone to cultivate what few crops the land will provide, but even so, it is not enough to survive on. And thus they are left with a terrible dilemma: for every one person who gets fed, two others must go hungry. Dagdar's men, abandoned in their youth, are the result of this ruthless arithmetic. This is the reality of living in South Thracia.
Leif: Th-Then they should just import food from elsewhere! In North Thracia, cities had an abundance of crops—buy their excess!
August: Ah, but the whole of North Thracia—the old coalition of Munster—resolved long ago to prohibit trade with South Thracia. Food, especially, was closely guarded.
Leif: ...Wh-Why would the North do such a thing?!
August: Historically? Recall the war between Njörun and Dáinn's children, 100 years ago, that led to the province of Munster declaring independence from the rest of Thracia. The two have considered each other enemies ever since, and this hostility persists because they are mutually unwilling to communicate. The noble houses of Munster, in particular, remained stubborn and selfish for a century afterward.
Leif: I... had been told that Thracia was all but a military state, that it was an infamously belligerent kingdom. But if they are merely the product of such wretched conditions... How did things all go so wrong? The North and South were a single kingdom once...
August: It all returns to the Tragedy of the Gáe Bolg, to the misfortune that seems to befall all those who wield either of the holy lances. North Thracia has been plagued by selfish and short-sighted rulers. You must learn from their example—learn how not to govern. If nothing else, you must learn enough to not repeat your father's mistake...
/***EOF***/
@Intro
Leif: Is this the place...?
August: Indeed. We're already inside the Loptians' secret temple. Stay alert, Prince Leif!
Leif: It certainly looks how you'd expect a hidden Loptian enclave to. Everything is so dark, I can barely see past my own nose. Where could Eyvel be?
August: That I don't know, I'm afraid. We've little choice but to search until we find her.

@Recruit-Talk 
%Leif,Eyvel
Eyvel: ……
Leif: Eyvel! Come on, Eyvel!
Eyvel: ……
Leif: Eyvel! It's me, Leif! Can you hear me?!
Eyvel: Leif... L-Lord... Leif... Ah! Little Lord! What are you doing here?! You gotta break out of here, and fast!
Leif: Eyvel... Things are very different now than when you were last awake...
Eyvel: Different? What's gotten into your head? We're still in the same—Huh? Wait, what is this place...?
Leif: Eyvel... Thank goodness... You're just like how you were before.
Eyvel: Little Leif... Just what the hell happened to me?
Leif: I'm sorry, but there's not enough time for me to explain everything... All you need to know is that we're fighting to liberate Thracia from the Empire, and we're in the middle of recapturing Munster right now! We need your strength now more than ever, Eyvel!
Eyvel: Heh... Already too old to keep calling me "Commander," I see. A lot must have happened... All right, we'll talk later. But we'll have time to catch up after this battle, right?
Leif: Of course! There's so much I want to tell you, Eyvel...

%Mareeta,Eyvel
Eyvel: ……
Mareeta: Mother! Hang on, Mother!
Eyvel: ……
Mareeta: Mother! Can't you hear me?!
Eyvel: ……
Mareeta: I'm so sorry, Mother... I... I...
Eyvel: ...What are you crying for, Mareeta?
Mareeta: Huh? M-Mother?!
Eyvel: Good, you're back to your senses... Now c'mon, we gotta get out of here before—Huh? Wait, what is this place...?
Mareeta: Mother! You're all right...!
Eyvel: 'Course I am! What, you thought Raydrik's goons would be able to do me in? Give your old mom some credit! Speaking of him, just where did that dastard run off to? And how'd we end up here...?
Mareeta: Raydrik, he's... he's already dead. We killed him. Oh, Mother, so much has happened... One of the Loptian bishops working for Raydrik had... turned you to stone...
Eyvel: Loptian bishop...? That's right! That bald guy in the robe! I only saw him for a second, and then... ...That man is dangerous. Where is he?
Mareeta: He's the one we're hunting now. We've taken the fight to the Loptians' home—this is their secret stronghold in Thracia! Mother, please, we need your help! I've prayed for the day when I could fight alongside you again!
Eyvel: You don't even have to ask, Mareeta. I'll always have your back, no matter what! Still... Not to bring down the mood, but I'm sorry for everything. I can tell I must've put you kids through a lot...
Mareeta: Mother…

@End 
Leif: Eyvel... I wanted so badly to see you again... Every day we spent fighting the Empire this past year was another night I spent dreaming of this reunion... And now that dream has come true. I'm so glad you're all right...
Eyvel: Has it already been a whole year since that day in the arena? Ah, Little Lord... Well, I guess you're not so little anymore. You're a man now—and a real prince, at that.
Leif: Eyvel... I realized I never thanked you. It's only because of you that I was able to have a peaceful childhood. For three happy years, I was able to play with the other kids in Fiana, spending every day just as carefree as a normal boy... I learned how to fight, and I even roughhoused with the other children... Do you remember how many times you had to scold me, Eyvel? Even that could be fun, sometimes... I'd spent my life on the run, and it was just another new experience for me. We didn't share blood, but we were a family: Finn was my father, you were my mother, and Nanna and Mareeta were my sisters. And I got to make friends with boys my own age, like Osian and Halvan. Back then, the only thing I wanted was for those days to go on forever... I have you to thank for all that, Eyvel. You let me experience what having a mother was like... You gave me back the warmth of family that I'd forgotten so long ago...
Eyvel: Oh, Little Leif... I still remember the day you entered my life. You and Little Nan wandered into the village with Finn, who was hurt so badly he could hardly manage to stay atop his horse. Little Nan was begging me to save her father, her cute eyes turned red with tears, and all I could think to do was hug her. But you... Heh, that's when I knew there was something different about you. You just looked me dead in the eye, held up the sword that was on your belt, and said, "I'll give you this if you help him." Wasn't till later that I realized how much it meant to you. I heard the blade was an heirloom—belonged to your mother, right? But I remember wondering, "Just what kind of ordeal must these three have been through to make this little boy so calm right now?" ...I can't remember my own childhood, Little Lord. Ten years ago, the villagers of Iz found me washed up on the shore. I don't know anything about what I did before that... Who was I...? Did I have a husband? Kids? I don't have the slightest idea. But when I first met you two, I realized something real bad must've happened to me in my own youth, too. So I figured, if I couldn't remember my own childhood, I could do the next best thing and give a childhood to two kids that needed one. Never imagined you would turn out to be the Prince of Leonster, though...

Nanna: Eyvel... Truth be told, I was always jealous of Mareeta. I would look at her and think, "If only I had a mother I could depend on, like she does." I cried about that more times than I can count. But I never realized I did have a mother all along: you, Eyvel. You found a way to love all of us equally, without condition. I'll never be able to express my gratitude for that...
Eyvel: Oh, Little Lady... C'mon, you're the Princess of Nordion! The blood of Hoðr runs in your veins! There's no doubt in my mind your mother is out there somewhere, alive. I mean, look what happened to me! Stranger things have happened. You just keep watching out for Little Leif. Never give up. You'll find her again someday...

Dagdar: It's good to have ya back, Eyvel. I been tryin' to help these lads as best I could, but nobody could ever replace you.
Eyvel: You don't give yourself enough credit, Dagdar. Without your help defending Fiana, I don't know if I could've survived as long as I have. We made quite the team...
Dagdar: D-Don't be stupid...! I, uh, didn't really do much...

Tanya: Papa, your face is all red! Cut it out! You're so embarrassing!

Halvan: Commander... It wasn't just Lord Leif. You've been like a mother to all the children of Fiana—especially me and my little sister. After we lost our parents, you were there to watch over us. You practically raised us. So I... I've been fighting this whole time just to get you back.
Eyvel: Halvan... I'm sorry for everything I've put you through. When this is all over, let's head back to Fiana together. Heh, poor little Patricia probably worried herself half to death over us...

Osian: Like a mother, huh...? Well, Ma passed a long time ago, but Pa ain't going anywhere. Guess having that old coot around is still better than not having anyone. I think I finally get that now...
Eyvel: I'm happy to hear you say that, you big lug. You've got it better than somebody like Halvan. Osian... Take good care of your father when you make it back to Fiana, you hear?

Eyvel: Mareeta? What's wrong? What are you doing over here by yourself?
Mareeta: M-Mother...
Eyvel: C'mon, you're a beautiful woman now, so don't go making a mess of your face with all those tears. Here, wipe them off.
Mareeta: Mother...! I... I...
Eyvel: There, there, sweet pea. I'm OK now, see? Everything's gonna be all right...

Eyvel: ...Who are you?
Galzus: I had half a mind to just leave, but I had to spare you a few words. I'm not much for talk, so... I'll make it fast. My daughter... How you've raised her, what you've made of her... Thank you.
Eyvel: Huh...?! Y-You're Mareeta's—
Galzus: That'd be me, yeah. Her mother... She died just after giving birth, and after that, the kid and I wandered the world together. Not proud of it, but... One day, when I took my eyes off her, a slaver up an' took her from me.
Eyvel: ...She was just a little girl when I found her. A young, innocent thing, wrapped in chains and up for sale in the markets of Conote. When I saw her, I just lost it... Killed every last slaver—and the bodyguards they had with 'em, too. I'd have done anything just to get those damned chains off her. She... said her name was Mareeta, and that she'd been with her father until a little while ago. I tried to get her home, tried to find you... But I couldn't.
Galzus: No... You're not to blame for any of this. I never should've led a nomad's life with such a small child to begin with. My daughter was very lucky to have found you... This is selfish of me, but... I think it'd be best if you were the one who watched over her after all this.
Eyvel: I agree. Mareeta is my daughter now—has been for years. I wouldn't let you take her away from me even if you wanted to.
Galzus: Good... After this is all over, I'll go back to my life of wandering. You'll never have to see me again.
Eyvel: Then before you leave, I have one last favor to ask, Galzus.
Galzus: Name it. If it's within my power, it will be done.
Eyvel: Once every year, would you visit us in Fiana? That's all I ask.
Galzus: ...... Very well... I will.

Finn: Eyvel... I regret I couldn't do more for you, after everything you've done for us, but I wanted you to know how grateful I am.
Eyvel: And I'm grateful to you, Finn, for everything you've done for Fiana over the years. I couldn't find a finer knight in all of Jugdral.
Finn: I never planned on telling you this, but after overhearing about your amnesia, it wouldn't be right to stay silent. I... once knew a woman who looked just like you...
Eyvel: Just like me...? Are you sure you're not just confused, Finn?
Finn: No, I'm certain. When Lord Quan fought in Lord Sigurd's army—gods rest their souls—there was a woman, a soldier, who served alongside us. She was an unmistakable sight on the battlefield... With her long, blonde hair waving in the wind, you could mistake her for a goddess. She was the eldest lady of House Yngvi, and inheritor of the holy bow Yewfelle... Her name was Brigid.
Eyvel: Brigid...? Finn, are you saying that woman... was me?
Finn: Yes... Well, probably.
Eyvel: Heh... I never took you for a romantic, Finn. If I had holy blood, I'd have a Brand somewhere on my body, but I don't. You've got the wrong person, Finn. I'm just an ordinary sellsword, making my way from place to place... I'm Eyvel of Fiana.
/***EOF***/
@Opening 
The forces of the Freeblades of Fiana, the Magi, and the remnants of Leonster's nobility, though but strangers to one another, had rallied behind their common cause. They quickly cohered into a formidable fighting unit, and became a new army all their own: the Liberation Army. The time was finally right to head for Tarrah and break the siege upon the city. The Liberation Army made their way to the Imperial-Thracian border, which they would cross by passing through Noel Canyon, a small gap in the otherwise impassible mountain range...

@Intro 
Olwen: Has there been any change, General Largo?
Largo: Hm? You're doing reconnaissance again today, Lady Olwen? I admire your fortitude, coming this far into the mountains every morn.
Fred: She's been assigned to it on the direct orders of General Kempf. There's no doubt he's out to harass her, having her make such a back-breaking trek each day...
Olwen: Truth be told, Fred, I'd rather be out here than cooped up in Fort Dandrum, having to look at Kempf's face every hour of the day.
Largo: Oh ho ho! Scathing words, but General Kempf is... quite an embarrassment, really. A highborn noble, his impudence and pettiness undermine his stature, and he behaves closer to a boy than a man. Perhaps it's natural to be a little insecure when General Reinhardt's fame has so thoroughly eclipsed his own, but to be so vindictive about it as to take it out on the General's only sister? You'd scarcely believe there was any noble blood in him at all. He's a disgrace to his uniform.
Olwen: General Kempf is utterly convinced that my lord brother is somehow his competition. He doesn't understand the solidarity that comes with military service.
Largo: They're both close in age, were both promoted to General very young... It's easy to see how such a vile mindset took root.
Olwen: But my lord brother certainly doesn't feel the same way about him.
Largo: Then that's all the more reason for General Kempf to hate him, wouldn't you say?
Olwen: What? Why? If the hatred's not mutual, there should be no reason for it to continue!
Largo: Hah! You don't get it? I envy your innocence. It's Kempf's way of thinking that ensures North and South Thracia will never be as one.
Olwen: I don't follow... What's that got to do with the North and South?
Largo: ...Ah, I've bent your ear for too long, though it's been good to speak so frankly. Why don't you stay a spell and catch your breath?
Olwen: I will. Thank you. You spoil me, General...

Dryas: Prince Leif, just across the valley is Fort Noel, which guards the border between Thracia and the Empire.
Leif: We'll finally be able to strike at the enemy's own territory for a change... Have we any idea of their numbers?
Dryas: Our reports say that their garrison is small, but they make up for it with force of arms: the fort is guarded with ballistae—a sort of giant bow that can fire across great distances. They're tremendously powerful—we'll have to destroy them before advancing toward the fort. Otherwise, capturing it will be impossible.
Leif: How do you propose we do that?
Dryas: We've three means of attack: First, we could send the majority of our forces to attack the ballistae, then send a small force to capture the fort while they're occupied. Second, we could storm the valley with all our forces at once, overwhelming the ballistae with too many targets for them to be effective. They both have their own crucial downsides...
Leif: What's the best course of action?
Dryas: That would be the third way. Surely you've caught on now that I've told you about the other two—don't tell me you need it spelled out for you, Prince Leif!

@Battle 
Largo: Lady Olwen, the valley is under attack! You must ride for Fort Dandrum at once and warn them—I'll keep the enemy at bay.
Olwen: If you'll permit it, General, I would rather remain here and fight alongside you!
Largo: I'm honored, Lady Olwen, but we have our orders. Yours is reconnaissance—and alerting Fort Dandrum must be your first priority!
Olwen: I can't just leave you here! You must allow me to help you defend the valley, if only for a little while...!
Largo: ...Very well—provided that you swear to leave the battlefield and ride for Fort Dandrum in short order.
Olwen: Thank you, General! Fred, let's move out!
Fred: Hah! There's the Lady Olwen I know!

Olwen: I can delay no longer... Fort Dandrum must be warned of this invasion. General Largo, I'll return with every able-bodied soldier I can find! You have my word...!

@Boss
Largo: What's the meaning of this?! Why do you trespass on our rightful land?

Largo: Argh...! So... this is how it ends...

Largo: I spit on your mercy, invaders! Why not just take my head?!

Olwen: Invaders, hear me: you must leave Imperial territory at once!

Fred: You think you can just stomp around House Friege's backyard and get away with it?!

@End 
^start
Dryas: General Largo… The man was every bit the soldier he was made out to be.
Leif: This was our first time fighting the troops of House Friege... Now that the battle is over, I can almost admire how well they fought. If this was the might of a skeleton crew manning a small border outpost, I worry how fierce their full army will prove to be...
Dryas: Indeed. House Friege is one of the most prestigious families in all of Jugdral—they have a reputation to uphold. To save themselves from any embarrassment, even the most lowly, rank-and-file soldiers are drilled in the ways of knighthood and honor. Their army throughout the rest of the continent will reflect this rigid discipline. They're a formidable enemy, no doubt—but you fought with the best of them, Prince Leif. Your leadership this day was most admirable.
Leif: Ah... You mean how I had General Largo captured instead of killed?
Dryas: Indeed. This holy war must be fought to the bitter end—but fighting it with such mercy is what the late Prince Quan would have done. I pray that you remain this just and forthright as our battles continue. Never forsake your knightly pride.
Leif: Knightly pride... Huh. I didn't really think of it in those terms—I merely wanted to avoid a needless slaughter if I could.

Leif: August, did you see the Mage Knight that fled midway through the battle?
August: Indeed—a woman knight, at that. She was a most difficult adversary.
Leif: Who was she?
August: I didn't recognize her, but there's little doubt she rode for Fort Dandrum to bring word of our incursion.
Leif: So the enemy will know we're coming...
August: Just so. And Fort Dandrum is no common encampment—it's regarded as impregnable, even a permanent fixture of the region. Combine that with the advance warning we've given them, and they'll have plenty of time to shore up their defenses even further. The fort's commander is surely no slouch—he's certain to make the most of the extra time to prepare. Indeed, I fear we'll have a most difficult time seizing the fort...
Leif: I see... Still, there's no other route that would allow us to cross the mountains.
August: That seems to be the hand we've been dealt, my prince. If we're to arrive at Tarrah in time to act, we must take Fort Dandrum.
Leif: Then there's little point standing around and complaining about it. The longer we wait, the stronger the fort's defenses will be. This is our only chance, and we'll make the most of it!
^end
/***EOF***/
@Intro 
August: Prince Leif, over here!
Leif: August?! What are you doing here?
August: Planning your rescue, but it seems that was unnecessary. Clearly, you're safe and sound, but... you look as if your mind is in great turmoil.
Leif: I've never hated the Empire more than I do in this moment, August. They snatched my parents from this world, and now they've taken my mother from me all over again... Raydrik is little more than their hand, committing untold evil at their behest! Augustus, show me how to wage war against them! I'll... I'll do anything to get her back! Just tell me what I need to do!
August: ...Lady Eyvel was turned to stone by some foul magic, you say? If that is indeed the case, you... must accept that she is gone, Prince Leif.
Leif: Wh-What kind of talk is that?! Isn't there some way to undo what's happened to her?!
August: Well... There is a sacred artifact, the Staff of Kia, that can reverse the process of petrification. Yet the enemy is one step ahead of us: long ago, Archbishop Manfroy of the Loptr Church placed a seal upon the staff that prevents anyone not of his bloodline from using it.
Leif: Manfroy's bloodline... So then...
August: This is mere rumor, but it is said that a hidden shrine to Loptous lies deep within the Aed Desert. Countless warriors who defied the Loptians and were turned to stone are kept within its forbidden halls. Amongst them, some say you can even find the young rebels who fell in the Battle of Belhalla so many years ago. If true, I imagine Lady Eyvel's petrified form would also be kept there as a trophy.
Leif: That... That's nonsense! Utter nonsense!
August: Is it? What you call "utter nonsense" is the state of our world! Do you doubt how much power the Loptr Church holds? Look around you! In the Thracian Peninsula alone, thousands—no, tens of thousands of children have been seized and sent to Belhalla! In places where the Church's influence runs strong, places like your native Munster, they possess near-total authority! Throughout Munster, you'll see nary a single child still free!
Leif: Do parents feel nothing when their children are stolen from them?! Why aren't they fighting this?!
August: Of course the people fight this—they resist however they can, not just in Munster but everywhere the Empire has dominion. But they're simple folk with no real weapons! They could never match the might of the Imperial Army, let alone the Loptr Church! Any who do try are arrested and executed—at best! The Cult's elite unit of sorcerers, the Schwarze Rosen, use methods that are the very definition of cruelty: they don't merely execute rebels, they burn everyone in their village at the stake! From all this, the men and women of Jugdral have lost their will to fight—they are little more than slaves now. Make no mistake: the Dark Age is upon us again.
Leif: Is there no end to their heartlessness...?
August: North Thracia was once defined by its clear skies and lush, verdant fields—but the land is now beset by dark clouds that blot out the sun. ...Prince Leif, your loyalty to Lady Eyvel is admirable, but a more important task stands before you. North Thracia needs a hero to rally behind, someone who will reinvigorate the people's will to fight and assemble them into an army. Call such heroism whatever you like—whether through bravery or ingenuity, you must rise above the obstacles before you. Prince Leif, you carry the blood of both the loyal Quan and the just maiden Ethlyn. Their strengths, their deeds, live on in you. Do you realize what that means? If the heir to House Leonster were to raise an army, all those in North Thracia who oppose the Empire would unite behind him. If such a thing were to occur, perhaps —just perhaps—the Empire and Loptians could be driven from Thracia.
Leif: I refuse to abandon the Commander, but... I understand your reasoning, August. If I could become the rallying figure for the liberation of Thracia, if I could rebuild Leonster and lead its army to crush the Empire... It would be nothing short of what Finn and I have dreamed of for as long as I can remember. August, if you would join me as my tactician and advisor, there is no hardship I would be unwilling to endure! But... is defeating the Empire even possible?
August: Yes, but leave the details for another time—for now, we must focus on our escape. Though I must say, Prince Leif, I am gladdened to hear such resolve from you.
Leif: There's no shortage of soldiers emerging to pursue us... Is there any safe route out of here?
August: Going through the eastern side-gate would be ideal, but that would require making our way through the castle town... If anyone is spotted by the enemy, they'll call for reinforcements, making our escape that much more difficult.
Leif: Not be seen by the enemy? I'm not sure how to avoid that...
Karin: If you want to avoid going through the town, I've got your back! Hermes an' I can fly everybody over the wall one by one—no chance of being seen that way!
Leif: That'll get us out of here without a fight, but will you be all right, Karin?
Karin: I can tell Hermes is willing to tough it out for everybody's sake. Normally, pegasi only let women so much as touch them—somethin' about men gets them spooked. Hermes is willing to give everyone a chance, though! He's a male pegasus, so he's plenty strong enough to carry me an' one extra!
August: ...Then it seems we have a viable means of escape. The question now becomes whether we should chance visiting the castle town.

@Battle 
Man: Hey, you all right? I’ve heard the news. You’d better escape while you still can.

Man: If we wait just a little longer, Master Ced should arrive to help us… That should make things easier.

Galzus: I do apologize for this, Bishop. Looks like all I've done is weigh you down.
Saias: Tell me something, Galzus. You said you work for Baron Raydrik, correct? So why this girl, of all people...? What is she to you?
Galzus: ...Nobody.
Saias: ...Whatever you say, Galzus. I admit, this is a bit much to handle on my lonesome, but I'll manage. May the fortunes of war be generous to you, my good man.

Galzus: I barely recognized you, lass... Never expected to see that face of yours again.

Ced: Good! Prince Leif is still safe!
Magi: He'd better be, after all the trouble it took to find him...
Ced: We must act as a decoy to ensure the prince's escape. Everyone, I'm... truly sorry to risk your safety like this, but Prince Leif must survive, no matter the cost. I humbly ask for your cooperation.
Magi: As if you even have to ask! We're with you, Sir Ced!

Ced: We're nearly at our limit... I'm ordering a retreat! It won't be long until the main body of the enemy's forces break away to engage us!

Raydrik: So the esteemed sellsword Galzus finally graces us with his presence! What in blazes took you so long?
Galzus: ...What you got for me?
Raydrik: See those prisoners there? They're making their escape, and they've proven quite... resilient. Earn your keep, and use that sword-arm of yours to deal with them!
Galzus: Hah! Those whelps are hardly worth worryin' about. I'll show you just how weak they are...

@Visit 
Old man: Yer the folk that helped me grandson Cliff, ain't ya? I'm mighty thankful that Sir Ced has friends like y'all to rely on. If anybody asks, ya didn't get this from me, but... I'd like ya to have this here Rapier. Don't be modest, now. Take it.

Woman: The Magi helped me kid brother, Bowie, escape to another village. Y'all wouldn't know anythin' about that, wouldja...? Listen, I don't know how I can ever thank ya. Not a day'll go by when I don't remember yer kindness. But words are wind, right? Look, this here is a set of writings that's been handed down in me family fer as long as there've been stars in the sky. Folk who read 'em get some kinda strange power, but shoot, we can hardly read, anyhow! It'll help you more'n it'll ever help us.

Man: Oh, I been waitin' fer ya! Bless you fer helpin' me little sis, Leena! ...Oh, I know! Take this! I found it tryin' to uproot a tree from me backyard... Gods know how long it's been buried there, but it looks like a page outta some history book or somethin'. I figure it's gotta be somethin' good, but there's no way I deserve it more'n y'all!

Woman: Y-Yer the ones what saved me daughter, Emily! Oh, I gotta find some way to thank ya proper... Ah, I know! Take a look at this: it's a medal fer chivalry an' knightly valor. Been an heirloom in the family fer generations, but it can be replaced. My Emily sure can't be, though! I'd like y'all to have it. If you ain't worthy of this medal, nobody is.

Hicks: Hey, I was waiting for you guys. I heard you saved Maphy, my son. Thanks to you, I was able to hide him in safe place, along with the other children. I’m Hicks, an Axe Knight of Munster. I was thinking it was about time to teach that Reidric a lesson. I’ll fight alongside you.

Woman: Me little sis, Bella, told me yer the ones who helped her. Thanks be to ye! We're poorer'n dirt, so there ain't much I can give ye, but I do got somethin' I can part with. If it please ye, good folk, this here is a flask of Pure Water. There's enough in there fer ye to get a few uses outta it.

@End 
Soldier: Baron Raydrik, we regret to report that Prince Leif has made it clear of the castle. He's... escaped.
Raydrik: And just what were you doing, you idiots?! We had them trapped like rats, and you still couldn't handle it?!
Soldier: We... We offer our deepest apologies, sire! We're truly sorry!
Raydrik: Your apologies are as empty as your brains! Clearly, this requires a man of greater intellect... Send for General Aizenau and his knights immediately! He is to lead his troops in pursuit of these upstart rebels. If they escape into Thracia proper, there's no end to the trouble they could cause...
Soldier: At once, milord!
Raydrik: Hold! What became of that girl... Mareeta, was it? I've not seen her since this fiasco started...
Soldier: ...I'm aware of her fate, Baron Raydrik, but I... wished to inform you later, when you were in a better mood... Someone attacked the guards that were stationed, and made off with her. I... I cannot begin to express my apologies, sire!
Raydrik: ...I swear, I've never encountered a group of adults more incapable of being useful... Do you buffoons even have a clue who this assailant was?!
Soldier: There's no doubt they were quite skilled, based on what's left of the guards... But one of our own claims to have seen that sellsword, Galzus, near the site of the attack. Are you certain we can trust him?
Raydrik: No... Galzus...?
Soldier: What's more, another man is sure he's seen a Brand on Galzus's back: the mark of Od, to be specific. Though if that's true, it would mean he's part of the Isaachian royal family...
Raydrik: Hmph. I'm already aware of his heritage. I'm not so foolish as to hire a sellsword without knowing everything about them. He is indeed Isaachian royalty—cousin to Prince Shannan, in fact. With the deaths of his kin, he's technically the prince of Ribaut, himself.
Soldier: B-But Prince Shannan is one of the most influential rebel leaders! Are we to open this castle to a man who shares his blood?
Raydrik: ...I can see I'll have to spell this out for you. Galzus's kin, the royal family of Ribaut, betrayed their home kingdom of Isaach and were killed for it. The man leading the troops that defeated them was none other than Shannan's grandfather, King Mananan. Since then, Galzus has endured nothing but hardship from a very young age. Do you honestly think such a man would ever help the likes of Shannan and his rebels?
Soldier: I see your point...
Raydrik: Ah... Then Galzus would have every reason to free that girl, wouldn't he? She bore the Brand of Od on her back as well... Heh, heh, heh...
Soldier: Uh, sire?
Raydrik: Mm, it's nothing you need concern yourself with. We can't do anything about the girl now, but as for Galzus? Our position is too vulnerable to risk losing him. Don't act against him unless I say otherwise.

@Boss 
Galzus: Fate must really have it out for you, makin' your path cross mine...

Galzus: Hah! So this is it... You're a... real fascinating sort... I was even... able... to... see...
/***EOF***/
@Opening 
Leading his men out of the bandit-infested Dakia Forest, Leif found a most welcome sight awaiting him and his Liberation Army: The walled city of Tarrah, its shape tall and imposing, stood before them on the horizon. Under the leadership of Duchess Linoan, daughter of the late Duke of Tarrah, the city had rebelled against the Empire, refusing to be complicit in their many crimes. This rebellion had not gone unpunished: the city had already been under siege by the Imperial Army, led by Colonel Paulus, for some time. Already in dire straits before the Empire's attack had even begun, it would now be exceptionally difficult for Tarrah to recover. Initially, Tarrah had brokered its freedom by agreeing to not interfere with the Grannvale Empire's conquest of North Thracia. In exchange, Tarrah had been allowed to keep its autonomy, but even at the time, the city's freedom was thought to be as precarious and fleeting as a candle flickering in the wind...

@Intro 
Paulus: How's our situation here, General Rist?
Rist: We have the city surrounded, Colonel Paulus. I formally request that we begin our assault now.
Paulus: Why the hurry? Baldack and the 8th Battalion should be here shortly. There's no need to overextend ourselves—we'd only be wasting good soldiers.
Rist: I see. As you wish, Colonel.

Rist: Hmph! I'll be damned if I just sit on my hands and let Baldack rob me of all the glory! All Imperial forces, begin the assault! Try to retreat, and I'll kill you myself! Go, go, go!

Dean: The Empire's finally making their move... What's the plan, Glade?
Glade: ...The reality is that we can't match the strength of their army. All we can do is postpone the inevitable.
Eda: I could... I could take to the sky and scatter their front line. I reckon that would buy you some time, but—
Dean: Don't. You wouldn't make it far—you'd be easy pickings for their ballistae. A Dracoknight's entire way of fighting is to swoop down, strike, and fly away—all in one swift move. That's how you stay alive, Eda. Impatience will just get you killed.
Eda: All due respect, Brother, but this isn't the place for a lecture. Time isn't on our side...
Glade: Hmm... For the time being, I'll dispatch my cadre of knights to the field.
Dean: But will your small band of knights be enough to stem the tide, Glade? Our sellswords have long since fled. Your men will have to go it alone.
Glade: ...We must call upon Prince Shannan. The blood of the crusader Od—the Sword Saint himself—runs strong in his veins. My knights could never match his might on the battlefield... Bah! Would that I knew why he refuses to help us!
Dean: Tch... That pompous little dastard? He doesn't give a damn about the common folk. Our battles don't concern him. I just don't understand that guy...
Glade: So he means to keep womanizing while the people of Tarrah fight for their lives? Damned philanderer... He won't be any help. We must fight the inevitable on our own, then.
Dean: Don't push yourself, Glade. The Empire's just getting started. However this ends, we've got a long way to go.
Glade: Yes... I know that.

Dryas: My prince, take a gander just over those mountains. The road has been long, but may I present the city of Tarrah— H-How?! How is this possible? The Empire has already begun their assault!
Leif: To arms, then! Tell our forces to charge into Tarrah! We can't abandon the city's people!
Dryas: I-I must object! The main body of our army has only just now cleared the forest! Our vanguard is all that we have here! That's to say nothing of the enemy's many ballistae! Gods, they practically have more ballistae than men to fire them...! Any of our forces that made for Tarrah's defense now would face... more than their share of danger.
Leif: ...I'm aware of the risks. But if we stand here and allow Tarrah to be razed to the ground, our war will be lost before it's even begun! Are you in agreement, August?
August: I am. If we do nothing to defend Tarrah, we lose the support of the people. Their belief in us will turn to contempt. Our army is still young and vulnerable. Without popular support, we have nothing—and our cause will fade into history, forgotten.

@Battle-Talk 
%Leif,Glade
Leif: Glade...? A-Are you the knight Glade, sir?
Glade: Hm...? Prince Leif?! It... It can't be...
Dryas: Hah! Is the mighty Sir Glade surprised so easily? This is indeed Prince Leif, in the flesh—our sovereign lord, and commander of House Leonster's army by birthright! The North Thracian Liberation Army is also his doing—and his to command.
Glade: House Leonster's army and the Liberation Army both... Our prayers have finally been answered, Duke Dryas!
Dryas: Indeed, Glade—our homeland of Leonster shall live again! Ours will be the hands that release the people from the yoke of tyranny! We will bear the flag of the Gáe Bolg, and raise it once more over the land of Njörun!
Glade: Hah... The day has finally come...! Prince Leif... Long have we mourned the ignoble deaths of King Calf and Prince Quan. The hopes of our people now rest with you. Please, milord, succeed your father and realize his will!
Leif: I shall! Join me, Glade, and we'll reclaim Leonster!
Glade: Hah! You needn't ask, milord! We sworn men of Leonster would follow you through the gates of Hell!

%Finn,Glade
Finn: Glade! You're all right!
Glade: Finn! It feels like a lifetime since last we met... How long has it been?
Finn: Ten years. The last time we stood together was at the battle for Ulster...
Glade: That's right... And all this time, you've been caring for Prince Leif? You've done well, old friend. You have my deepest thanks, truly.
Finn: The feeling is mutual, Sir Glade. After all, you've been no slouch, yourself—you have helped Duke Dryas raise the next generation of the Lanzenritter, and kept their name alive. Were it not for their aid, I fear Lord Leif wouldn't have been able to come this far.
Glade: I merely kept my word, nothing more. When last we were together, we made a pact: I to protect the banner of House Leonster, and you to protect Prince Leif. We swore to defend them both with our lives.
Finn: Well, looking around us, I'd say we've finally achieved what we vowed so long ago to do. Our wards stand tall and ready to fight again. Ah, but there's no rest for us knights, is there? Yet another battle unfolds before us. We cannot lose focus, even for but a moment.
Glade: Indeed. Until the flag of the Gáe Bolg flies over Leonster once again, we must remain ever vigilant... But when that day finally comes, old friend, I want nothing more than to sit down with you and share a good brew! For now, though, you must see to it that Prince Leif and his retinue make it inside Tarrah's walls! We've gotten word that one of House Friege's battalions are due to arrive soon, and it's dangerous enough out here as it is!

%Selphina,Glade 
Selphina: Glade! Oh, it does my heart a world of good to see you safe...
Glade: Selphina... You came along too, my beloved?
Selphina: Of course! Prince Leif heard that Tarrah was in jeopardy, and we set off together. Oh, I'm truly grateful to be with you again...
Glade: I'm deeply sorry to have worried you. Ah, but... Selphina... Yet again, I've ordered many promising young knights to their deaths... I lament just how weak I am...
Selphina: No! My dearest, you are the highest exemplar of a knight of Leonster! I'm proud to be your wife! So, please, don't be so hard on yourself...
Glade: Thank you, Selphina. Ah, did the gods smile upon me the day that we met... and seeing you again, here, is enough to soothe my very soul. Ah, I almost forgot! Here. I want you to take a look at this.
Selphina: This is...? Ah! How did you...?! A Brave Bow! Just like the ones in the legends!
Glade: I came across it by chance during my time in Tarrah. I took the liberty of buying it for you, for when we met again... Will you use it?
Selphina: Of course I will! Oh, Glade, this is just splendid! Thank you!

%Selphina,Glade 
Selphina: Glade! Oh, it does my heart a world of good to see you safe...
Glade: Selphina... You came along too, my beloved?
Selphina: Of course! Prince Leif heard that Tarrah was in jeopardy, and we set off together.
Glade: Hah, so I saw! I had the honor of meeting our liege himself earlier. It amazes me just how much he's grown... We parted a decade ago, at Alster, and now he's already a boy of 15...
Selphina: I shared your shock when I reunited with him, as well. To think the toddler we knew so well has grown so tall...
Glade: ...He's no longer a boy, is he? He's a man. A fine, young man. He already bears a striking resemblance to Prince Quan.
Selphina: Indeed? I thought he bore more of a resemblance to his mother. Looking at him, I could feel Lady Ethlyn's grace once again...
Glade: Truly? Ah, but he must get his eyes from Prince Quan, at least! He has the same determined gaze as his father.
Selphina: Oh, nonsense! He gets his eyes from Lady Ethlyn, too. She doted on me like a little sister, and I remember her face all the better for it.
Glade: All right, all right, point taken, my dearest. But there's no need to get worked up over it—he's the child of them both, after all. It's only natural that he'd take after the two of them in a few different ways.
Selphina: Ah... You've the right of it, of course. I beg your pardon. It's just that so many things remind me of Lady Ethlyn, and I...
Glade: No, I understand... Lady Ethlyn, she... I've always wondered what she felt, leaving her newborn son behind when she rode out that final, fateful time with Prince Quan... Do you think... Was her heart plagued with regret, to have left Prince Leif behind?
Selphina: I... I don't know. I remember that when Prince Leif was still but a babe, Lady... Lady Altena used to be so jealous of him. That was always a source of trouble for Lady Ethlyn. Yet despite that, they were a lucky family, and they all had a promising future. My fondest wish back then was to be a mother as strong and wise as Lady Ethlyn when I came of age. But then came that day in the Aed Desert... An act of treachery so foul it could be mistaken for a waking nightmare...
Glade: Selphina…?
Selphina: I-I'm sorry... I swore I would never cry again...
Glade: No, it's better to let it out now. I... know that no mere trinket can begin to make up for what we've lost, but... Take a look at this bow, Selphina.
Selphina: This is...? Ah! How did you...?! A Brave Bow! Just like the ones in the legends!
Glade: I came across it by chance during my time in Tarrah. I took the liberty of buying it for you, for when we met again... Will you use it?
Selphina: Of course I will! Oh, Glade, this is just splendid! Thank you!

@Battle 
August: T-Tarrah has fallen! With the city crushed by the Empire, the people will surely turn against us... Our war... is over.

@Boss 
Rist: D-Damn! I can't believe this!

Rist: Ugh... All the glory... the honor... that I worked for...

@End 
Linoan: ...L-Lord Leif?!
Leif: Linoan! Good, I made it in time... just barely...
Linoan: Lord Leif! I... I can scarcely believe my eyes! You've returned! Gods above, I give thanks for your mercy...
Leif: ...Linoan, you have my apologies. I should have come here sooner. Despite all I'd heard, I just couldn't fathom how the city I'd been raised in could be in such dire straits. I share the blame for this... Because of me, your father...
Linoan: No, you have it all wrong! From the moment he met you, my father knew what sheltering you in Tarrah would mean... He was prepared for the consequences. If he could open the way to a new world with his death, no one could have convinced him to do otherwise. I am proud of my father, and I stand by his decision—despite the grief it brought me personally. Long have I endured the Empire's tyranny, comforted by the belief that we would meet again—and now that day has come. And yet... To endanger myself is one thing, but now I've imperiled the tens of thousands of people that call Tarrah home. I... I don't know what to do in the face of this crisis...
Leif: Dry your eyes, Linoan. Fear not. I swear upon my sword that I'll protect both you and the city of Tarrah!
/***EOF***/
@Opening 
Heeding August's advice, Leif approached Leonster from the south. However, this meant crossing through Millefeuille—the so-called "Mirage Forest." Leif would soon learn first-hand how the area earned such an infamous nickname, and why people went out of their way to avoid it...

@Intro 
Dorias: This is the great forest of Millefeuille, a sprawling woodland deserving of the name "Mirage Forest."
Leif: Mirage Forest... So, how do we proceed from here?
Dorias: If we can make it to the forest's northeast edge, Castle Leonster will be but a stone's throw away. But I suggest we bring up the rear, so as to better keep an eye on the troops and ensure we don't lose anyone along the way.
Leif: Understood. Tell everyone to exercise extreme caution, and not let their guard down for even a moment. Now, let's get this over with. Forward march!

Soldier: Is something amiss, Bishop Rinecok?
Rinecok: Eheheheh... Gaze into the crystal ball and have a look for yourself. Seems some fresh prey has wandered here.
Soldier: Armed men...? Doubtless it's Count Conomor of Alster, trying to rescue his precious Princess Miranda.
Rinecok: Bah, not even Conomor is that foolish. No, it's probably the meager remnants of Leonster, trying to recapture their castle.
Soldier: Ah, they must have chosen to go through the forest to avoid our defenses on the western front... What a colossal blunder.
Rinecok: It's quite the boon for us, really. Now we have something to kill time with. Gather every free hand and take up positions.
Soldier: At once, Bishop. But what will you be doing, sir?
Rinecok: Hah! I'll be taking the opportunity to... test this.
Soldier: Ah, that's the Berserk staff! This should be most interesting...
Rinecok: Eheheheh...
Sara: Having fun, Rinecok?
Rinecok: Lady Sara?! A little girl like you shouldn't be out here. Please, return to your chambers.
Sara: ...But that's boring. What's Grandfather doing?
Rinecok: Archbishop Manfroy is in Conote with His Highness Prince Julius. I believe he should be returning soon...
Sara: Ooh, if I'd known this was going to be so boring, I wouldn't have come...

@Battle 
Sara: Huh...? Wh-Who is...
Rinecok: Lady Sarah? Is there something wrong?
Sara: No... It's nothing. Rinecok, can I take a walk for a little while?
Rinecok: Ah... It's much too dangerous outside, Lady Sarah. Please, milady, just... just do as I say.

@Recruit-Talk 
%Leif,Sara 
Leif: Huh? A little girl? Here, in this treacherous forest...?
Sara: ……
Leif: Who are you? Are you all by yourself?
Sara: Hmm... So it's you.
Leif: Come again? What are you talking about?
Sara: Aah... You're perfect, just like I expected. I'll help you.
Leif: Oh, this is... quite the nuisance. August, Dorias, where have you two gone? I could use your advice right about now...
Sara: I'm Sara. I know everything about you. I know you're Prince Leif of House Leonster, son of Quan. And I know your mother was a pretty lady named Ethlyn, but she's dead, isn't that right?
Leif: Gah...!
Sara: Don't look so afraid. My Mama and Papa are dead, too. Mama died when I was little, and Papa... Grandfather got angry at Papa for falling in love with Mama, and killed him. It happened before I was born.
Leif: ……
Sara: It was you that was calling out to me, so I came to help. ...But if I'm just a nuisance, you can make do without me!
Leif: Wait! Please! I... I don't completely understand what's happening here, but I feel our meeting is very important. I want to know more about you. Will you come with us?
Sara: Uh-huh, I'm fine with that. You know, I really like your voice.
Leif: Um... Thank you, Sara.

@Battle-Talk 
%Salem,Sara
Salem: Lady Sara?! What are you doing in a place like this?
Sara: Who are you? I don’t know you.
Salem: Ah, of course... You see, I was a bishop of Loptous once, but the granddaughter of the Archbishop would have no reason to know me.
Sara: Hmm... I see... Well, just get out of my way. I'm looking for the voice of your master. I must find it...
Salem: The voice of my master...?
Sara: It's such a beautiful voice... And it's calling out to me for help...
Salem: Uh... I-Is that so...? Wait. If you're Sara, granddaughter of Archbishop Manfroy, then you can use the Staff of Kaia... That's it!
Sara: Mm... Bye-bye, Salem.

@Recruit-Talk
%Homer,Shannam
Homer: Well, well, look who it is. It's been a while, Shannam.
Shannam: Grk...!
Homer: So this time you're a stooge for the Loptians, huh? Guess you don't discriminate when it comes to employers.
Shannam: H-Hey... I don't like doing this, you know! Look, I'm out of coin... I don't have a choice!
Homer: Uh-huh. Well, suit yourself. It doesn't make any difference to me what you do.
Shannam: Hey, wait, where're you going? You can't just leave me here! You gotta help me out! I mean, we're friends, right?
Homer: Like I said, it makes no difference to me what you do. If you want to tag along, it's no skin off my back.
Shannam: Really? Wow! I owe you one... Thanks a bunch.
Homer: You're not like the real prince at all. Ugh...

@Boss 
Rinecok: You trespass upon land belonging to Loptous himself! Fools...!

Rinecok: O Lord... I beg for your... divine... intervention...

Rinecok: I've nothing to say to you...

@Recruit-Battle 
Shannam: H-Hey, wait! Let's talk about this...

Shannam: Ngh... What a stupid way... to...

Shannam: You have my thanks—for now. Hah...

Sara: What are you doing? Do you... not like me?

Sara: I feel so... alone...

Sara: That was... boring.

@End 
August: Somehow, we managed to escape... But to think there was a Loptian monastery in a place like this... This entire battle was born of my negligence. The failure is mine...
Leif: Don't let it weigh too heavily on you. You're not all-knowing, after all. Still, this place has certainly lived up to its reputation—though we proved up to the challenge.

Dorias: Is this... a monastery of the Loptian Order? The mages and bishops seem to have all fled...
August: Prince! There was a woman being held captive inside the monastery. She wishes to see you.
Leif: Very well. Bring her to me.
Miranda: Prince Leif... It's been a long, long time...
Leif: ...And you are?
Miranda: You ask ME that?! Oh, so that's how it is... You've forgotten me, have you?! I'm Miranda of Alster!
Leif: Miranda... The princess? Princess of Alster? How can that be?! Why are you here?
Miranda: Did you not recognize me? Bah, I suppose it's no surprise, considering the sorry state I'm in... I must look like some common wretch. But before you get caught up on how unsightly I look, remember that all of this is your fault, Prince!
Leif: My fault? Why?
Miranda: All of this began when Leonster fell. My lord father was a gentle man, who hadn't the heart for battle—and he knew there was little sense in fighting the Empire. But nevertheless, he took you in, sheltered you from the Empire—and in so doing, invited their wrath! He had to turn me over to them as a hostage and forfeit his own right to the throne! And in the end, he departed this world in a state of utter misery... I cannot forgive you, Prince! If you'd never come to Alster, things wouldn't be like this...
Leif: ……
Dorias: ...Princess Miranda, I must beg to differ. The Empire planned to conquer Alster all along. Prince Leif's presence was merely a convenient excuse to do so. Not to speak ill of the dead, Princess, but your father was too timid. He had knights of the highest caliber at his command, yet when Thracia invaded, he sat on the fence instead of joining the fight. And despite being a sworn ally of Leonster, when our kingdom was in crisis, he sent no troops to our aid. He simply reaped what he sowed. Your father himself is to blame for your kingdom falling into ruin! Shifting the blame to Prince Leif is pure selfishness!
Leif: Enough, Dorias! Nothing good will come of talk like that!
Dorias: Hrm... I went too far, I admit. Please accept my apologies...
Leif: You have my apologies as well, Princess Miranda. I must beg your forgiveness... Had I known you were being held captive here, I would've come to your aid as fast as my legs could carry me. I can't imagine how difficult it was for you, being imprisoned here for so long...
Miranda: ...Well, admittedly, I haven't been imprisoned in this dreary monastery the whole time. Until last year, I was being kept in Alster. Count Conomor watched over me from afar, and I was comfortable enough. But then came the insurrections in Tahra and Leonster... That stoked the fires of revolution, and even in Alster, a contingent of the people plotted rebellion. Evidently, the Empire feared their position was becoming too vulnerable, and so I was moved to this dreadful place.
Leif: Ah... Well, even one year is far too long to spend in a place like this.
Miranda: Prince Leif, if you weren't lying about wanting my forgiveness, you must lend me your strength! I must reclaim Alster... I must undo my father's regrets, and give meaning to his meaningless death!
/***EOF***/
@Opening 
Paulus: Where's Rist? I don't see him anywhere...
Baldack: I bring word of his fate. He charged into battle early, and was defeated by the rebels. Right now, he's either dead or in chains.
Paulus: The poor sod... I almost pity him.
Baldack: If I may speak freely, sir, Rist brought it upon himself when he disobeyed your orders.
Paulus: ...I'm not so sure of that. I was opposed to this whole plan, and now my hesitation has cost a great many soldiers their lives. The blame is mine alone. I must make quite a sight: the great Colonel Paulus, reduced to an old man whose glory days are long past him. Go ahead and laugh, Baldack.
Baldack: Colonel...
Paulus: But I cannot allow myself to hesitate for one moment longer. I am a knight of House Friege, and I have a duty to uphold. Will you lend me your strength, Baldack?
Baldack: Of course, Colonel Paulus! I await your orders! What's more, the main body of the 8th Battalion has arrived. With your permission, we'll begin our assault at once.
Paulus: Permission granted. I'll have my own troops move to reinforce your position just as soon as my men have finished their preparations. ...See that you don't get sloppy, General. I imagine that goes without saying, but still, keep your guard up.
Baldack: I'll remain vigilant, Colonel. On my honor, Tarrah will fall this day!

Eda: ...It's started, Lady Linoan.
Linoan: And so the Empire brings the full weight of their army to bear against us... What is Lord Leif doing now?
Eda: Meeting with the other commanding officers and military officials.
Linoan: Is Dean with them?
Eda: Brother said he wasn't the type to sit around in some war council. He left to go defend the southern gate. He's always been headstrong like that...
Linoan: Heh. That much I already know. Dean has been watching over me since I was very young, you see. He always reminded me of the stories of the crusader Dáinn, the legendary Dracoknight. He may lack for etiquette, but he's always been the sort to fly freely through the skies, untroubled by the world's petty squabbles... He's a towering, loud-mouthed man, true, yet he's still gentle in his own way. And above all, he is a master of the skies, undefeatable in battle—just like Dáinn.
Eda: I... think you've been misled, Lady Linoan. My brother is not the exemplar among men you believe him to be.
Linoan: I beg to differ. He's not perfect, granted, but had he not come to my aid, my spirit would have been broken long ago—and I would be useless to the city now. After my father was killed, the ducal mansion was seized, and I was forbidden to even set foot outdoors on my own. For two years, I was kept prisoner in my own home. And for all that time, the wretched governor sent by the Empire interrogated me about where Prince Leif was. To this day, just the thought of that disgusting man is enough to make my heart stop... Dean... He saved me from that. After the deed was done, he protected me from the Empire's assassins—and when my grief felt too heavy to bear, he was always ready to bring a smile to my face. It was strange... He always kept up a cheery demeanor, but behind the facade, I could tell he must've been a renowned sellsword. Never would I have suspected that he answered to Lord Arion himself...
Eda: ...There's more to it than that. His Highness Prince Arion was worried sick about the crisis unfolding in Tarrah, and secretly arranged for Dean to rescue you. I remember Brother being so honored by the trust His Highness had placed in him... I've never seen him happier. But it wasn't without its cost. To preserve the secrecy of his mission, Brother had to make it look like he'd simply deserted from the army.
Linoan: Lord Arion really went to such lengths...?
Eda: His Highness was caught between a rock and a hard place. He couldn't leave Thracia, but he couldn't sit back and let his own fiancée die. ...His Highness seemed deeply tormented— openly so—during the whole ordeal. But fear not, Lady Linoan. Dáinn and Njörun have bore witness to your compassion and grace, and they will not forsake you. ...It's time. I need to set off for the front lines. Please, milady, wait here and stay safe. Have faith that we will be victorious today!

@Battle 
Homer: Hey, what's with the getup? You planning to skip town?
Shannam: Hmph... There's no point in stickin' around here...
Homer: Oh, c'mon! The folks around here only put up with you because they wanted your help so badly! Everybody's gonna have it out for you if you run out on them now—especially the women. "Hell hath no fury," and all that.
Shannam: N-No, it's not like that! I'm the prince of a whole different country, and I can't just leave my people without their beloved leader!
Homer: Uh-huh. Yeah, if you're the prince of Isaach, I'm Saint Heim. I can see right through you.
Shannam: Hrk...! How did you know?!
Homer: I'm a bard, remember? I know what Prince Shannan looks like, and you ain't him. Still, it's not like I can blame you. I mean, who wouldn't want to save their own skin? No sense in getting dragged down with the rest of the city if you can avoid it.
Shannam: So you're making a run for it, too?
Homer: That's the plan. I'm hightailing it outta here first thing in the morning—gives me plenty of time to have my fun tonight, heheh.
Shannam: Yeah, you do that. Me, I'm gettin' out while I still can. If you make it through this alive, maybe we'll cross paths again someday.
Homer: One last thing. Now that we're acquainted, you at least gotta tell me your real name.
Shannam: ...... It's Shannam.
Homer: That's... closer to the real thing than I was expecting. Well, safe travels, "Prince" Shannam.

Travant: It's almost time... I trust you're aware of my plans, Makroy? Officially, we're the Empire's allies, here to lend a helping hand to their little conquest. Keep the Imperial Army believing that, but only help them as little as possible—just enough to make it look like we're being loyal.
Makroy: ...And when the Empire's forces have exhausted themselves, we turn on them and seize Tarrah for ourselves.
Travant: Exactly. Tarrah is the most important card we can play against Bloom... See that you don't damage the city too much in all the fighting.
Makroy: I'm aware of the stakes, Your Majesty. Leave everything to me.

Arion: My lord father, doesn't attacking Tarrah only serve to benefit the Empire? Tarrah's citizens are united in their hatred of the Empire. If we come to their aid now, it could pave the way for a new alliance between us.
Travant: Hah! You think shackling ourselves to Tarrah would be enough to triumph over the Empire? Have you already forgotten our defeat at Melgen? We had all of North and South Thracia united under our rule then, and we were still no match for the Empire.
Arion: ...We lost only because Raydrik betrayed us.
Travant: Maybe so, maybe so... But the fact remains that the battle ended with us humiliated, and having to resort to suing for peace. North Thracia—the land I had gone through so much to finally regain—was taken from me all over again. All those years... for nothing. As it stands, it's no exaggeration to say that the Empire's might exceeds our own by tenfold. You still like those odds? You still think you can win? A whole lot of people will die: Imperials, Thracians, Tarrans. They'll all bleed just the same. You still want to go through with your plan?
Arion: N-No... You've the right of it, my lord father. I was... being too rash. ...But if I may, Father, I have a request.
Travant: *Sigh* What?
Arion: I wish to help you seize Tarrah.
Travant: ...You're up to something, aren't you? Well, so be it. As long as this wealthy city falls into Thracia's hands, I don't give a damn how you do it. I give you leave to act as you see fit!
Arion: I won't let you down! Thank you, my lord father!
Travant: Just make sure you don't take too long. I can only keep up this ruse for so much longer, and I'd rather not use my main body of troops to seize Tarrah if I can avoid it.
Arion: Of course, Father! If things keep going the way they are, countless innocent civilians will perish... I must convince Linoan, no matter what...

Arion: Linoan! Where are you? It's me! It's Arion!
Linoan: Lord Arion! Wh-What are you doing here?!
Arion: There's no time. You must listen to me: tell your people to lay down their arms and surrender. Immediately. If you keep fighting like this, Tarrah will never recover from this battle. Its fate will be sealed.
Linoan: Why...? Why would I do such a thing?! This isn't something I'd ever imagined hearing from you... Just what in blazes has happened?
Arion: My lord father is planning to seize Tarrah for himself. He's prepared a massive army to take the city from the Empire once their forces are exhausted.
Linoan: No...!
Arion: It gets worse. Sorcerers of the Loptr Church are headed here even as we speak. And not just any sorcerers—they've sent the Schwarze Rosen, the withered roses of Loptous himself. When they arrive here, they'll slaughter every single man, woman, and child in Tarrah. It will be genocide.
Linoan: The Schwarze Rosen… This was my greatest fear...
Arion: Linoan, you must trust me. Allow Thracia to occupy Tarrah. We can place the city's people under our protection, and I'll see to it they're treated well. The Empire won't be able to harm them. Being under Thracian rule also means the city won't be forced to participate in child hunts— and isn't that what you wanted all along? Of course, I won't allow anything to happen to you, either. You have my word that I'll protect you just as vigilantly, Linoan.
Linoan: What will become of Lord Leif and the other knights?
Arion: I'm afraid they'll have no choice but to flee the city. The Empire cannot allow the Prince to escape, and Father fears him as a threat.
Linoan: ...I understand, Your Highness. I shall avail myself of your kind offer, and entrust the city of Tarrah to you.
Arion: You've made a wise decision, Linoan.
Linoan: But I won't be staying here, myself. I shall accompany Lord Leif. It pains me to abandon the citizens who've stood by me for so long during our rebellion, but I believe this would be best for everyone. Once the Empire lies destroyed at the hands of Lord Leif and myself, I'll return home. When that day comes, Your Highness, do you promise to return Tarrah to my rule?
Arion: You... plan to overthrow the Empire? I'll agree to those terms. If you can truly defeat the Empire, I'll gladly return Tarrah to you.

Arion: Is Prince Leif worthy of such confidence, I wonder? Is the boy really up to such a monumental task as fighting the Empire? Will he grow to be Thracia's ally, or its greatest nemesis...? I hope that I'm able to meet him one of these days... together with Altena.

@Recruit-Visit 
Homer: Oh-ho-ho...! I like what I see! I'll clear my whole schedule to make time for you, darling.
Nanna: I beg your pardon? What's the meaning of this...?
Homer: Y'see, hun, this is my last night in town. Would that I could make love to all my admirers, but alas, I'm only one man—Yowch! Hey, hey, hey! What'd you hit me for?!
Nanna: What are you thinking?! All the people of the city, young and old, are fighting tooth-and-nail for Tarrah! But here you are, already halfway through a bottle of wine before noon! Have you no shame?!
Homer: H-Hey, sweetheart, don't get that pretty face all wet with tears... *Sigh* All right, all right, I get it. I suppose I can lend you a hand... Just remember that I'm a lover, not a fighter. This body of mine, enchanting as it may look, isn't built for heavy labor.

@Visit 
Homer: Beat it, kid. I'm trying to catch an afternoon nap. Can't stay looking good if you let a little ol' war get in the way of your beauty sleep...

Homer: Hmm... A man, huh? I'm not quite in the mood for that today, but please, do come see me another time.

Homer: Well, what have we here? Hmm... Tempting, but I'm saving all my strength for later tonight. I'm gonna have my hands plenty full then.

Woman: Ah, Sir Dean! Lady Altena has been waiting here for you.
Altena: It's been too long, Dean. I'm glad to see you're doing well.
Dean: Lady Altena?! What in Dáinn's name are you doing here?
Altena: Heh... You haven't changed a bit, Dean. I've come all this way to give you a gift: a spear worthy of your service to Thracia.
Dean: Th-This is no mere spear...! This is His Highness Prince Arion's personal weapon, the Dragonpike! Why would he give me such a prized possession?
Altena: He considered it a token of his apology, for having to brand you a deserter as part of your cover. Go on, take it—he said he wanted you to put it to good use.
Dean: I was the one who chose to desert the army. Sure, it was to carry out His Highness' secret mission, but I could've said no. I made the decision, not him—and I knew what it would mean for me. His Highness is not to blame. So as flattered as I am, I can't accept this.
Altena: Don't disregard my brother's feelings so easily, Dean. He thought just as much about this as you did about deserting the army. ...Besides, if you won't accept his gift willingly, then as Princess of Thracia, I'll just order you to accept it.
Dean: Hah... You know, technically, I'm not a knight of Thracia anymore, so you actually couldn't order me to do anything. But you've made your point, Lady Altena. Order or no, you know I could never refuse you. I'll wield the Dragonpike for a time—but I'm only borrowing it, that's all.
Altena: I'm glad you understand. Now, use the Dragonpike to protect Linoan. Make sure nothing happens to her. Linoan and Brother are betrothed, after all... He wanted to come here and defend Linoan himself, but couldn't risk leaving the kingdom unguarded for too long... I suppose giving you his spear was his way of being here in spirit.
Dean: I'm supposed to be a stand-in for His Highness himself? Awfully big shoes he's asking me to fill... I think you've got the wrong idea, Lady Altena. No way am I the man for that kind of honor. I'll do my best, though. Now don't you worry another minute about Duchess Linoan! I'll guard her with my life!

@Boss 
Paulus: So... This is how I'm to die...

Paulus: King Bloom, I beg of you... I've... seen what will happen... It's not... too late...

Paulus: You have my gratitude. Yet our defeat is my responsibility...

Baldack: Funny. You little rats think you can actually beat me!

Baldack: Wh-What tomfoolery... How... could... this...
/***EOF***/
@Opening 
By the time Leif had finished the last of the fighting in Leonster and departed for Ulster, the city had already fallen to the Isaachian Liberation Army led by Lord Seliph. However, the head of House Friege, King Bloom, had escaped to Conote. In the now-liberated Ulster, Leif finally met his cousin, a man who would be his friend and ally for the rest of his days: the "Scion of Light" and Lord of House Chalphy, Seliph...

@Intro 
Julia: Lord Seliph, we should head back soon...
Seliph: Ah, Julia, are we out of time already? I wish we could keep talking, Prince Leif, but I must be going. Leave the conquest of Conote to us—I bid you go straight to Manster.
Leif: I pray you forgive my selfishness, Lord Seliph.
Seliph: Nonsense, you're not being selfish at all! I understand your feelings perfectly. You can head to Munster with a clean conscience—I'll see you soon.
Leif: Yes, in Munster! You can count on it!
Julia: I'll be praying for your health, Lord Leif... If your fortune begins to wane, perhaps one of your own clerics could appeal to the gods. I believe there's a church on your route... It was built to receive the prayers of the Ducal Family of Tarrah, as I recall...
Leif: Thank you, Lady Julia. Just don't forget to take care of yourself, too.

August: How went your meeting with Lord Seliph, my prince?
Leif: He and I are only a year apart, but he's such an incredible man...
August: Indeed. He commands an army ten times the size of ours, and he was able to lead them across the Aed Desert. He's certainly not your ordinary youth...
Leif: But you said before that he was "made" into a hero, did you not?
August: I did say that, yes—and in one sense, it's true. But I'm not discounting that Lord Seliph himself possesses outstanding talent. I suspect he'll eclipse the legend of his father, Lord Sigurd, by quite some measure.
Leif: And meanwhile, I'm still just an embarrassment to Leonster...
August: You've grown much over the past year, my prince—in another year, I expect you'll be the same caliber of man as Lord Seliph. Now, putting that aside, what did you and he agree would be the plans for our armies, going forward?
Leif: Lord Seliph's main forces will go east along the shore to seize Conote, as planned.
August: Which frees our army to head for Fort Danzig, correct?
Leif: Indeed. Lord Seliph readily granted my request. Leaving Conote to Seliph means we can focus all our energy on seizing Munster—I want to head there as soon as possible.
August: We'll have to claim Fort Danzig regardless—it controls the inland route to Munster.

Diarmuid: The army stands ready, Prince Leif. We await your command.
Leif: Then there's no time to lose! We storm Fort Danzig!

Seimetol: Everybody remembers we fight for pay, right? So don't be a hero! Wait for the enemy to break up their forces, THEN swoop in! Until then, nobody leave their post!

@Visit 
Bishop: Ah... You're Duchess Linoan of Tarrah, are you not?
Linoan: Hm? How do you know who I am?
Bishop: I grew up with your father. He and I didn't know each other particularly well, but I was also good friends with your late mother. I nearly mistook you for her when you walked in—the resemblance is uncanny.
Linoan: Oh... Is that so...?
Bishop: Oh, heavens! I didn't mean to upset you. Er... I take it you're with Prince Leif? I saw you fighting together outside.
Linoan: I am with the Liberation Army, yes.
Bishop: Mm... It seems the blood of the crusaders is drawn to conflict...
Linoan: Blood of the crusaders? You don't mean... I have holy blood?
Bishop: Eh? Your father didn't tell you? The Ducal House of Tarrah is descended from Saint Heim, the first of the Grannvale kings.
Linoan: I have... the blood of Saint Heim...?
Bishop: You mean to say you never realized you bore the power of Naga herself...? Follow me. I can awaken the holy blood that lay dormant in your veins.
Linoan: Very well.

Bishop: The fighting will only become more intense as you draw closer to the Imperial base to the east. Keep hold of this Pure Water. I'm sure it will come in handy.

@Boss 
Fraus: On my honor as a soldier, I'll defend this fort to the end!

Fraus: Ugh... I regret... I... couldn't...

Fraus: So I... made it out alive? But what am I going to do now...?

Seimetol: Soldiers of Leonster! Prepare yourselves!

Seimetol: Your Majesty... I'm sorry... I... couldn't...

Seimetol: How am I ever gonna make it up to His Majesty...?

@End 
^start 
Leif: August! This can't be an ordinary fort—there are too many guards for that!
August: By the look of it, this place is being used as a prison camp. The enemy has likely started executing prisoners because of our attack.
Leif: What?! Then there's not a moment to lose! We have to rescue the prisoners!
August: Our forces are already exhausting themselves, Prince Leif. Besides, we have intelligence that a battalion of Loptian mages are en route. Please, we need to withdraw while we can!
Leif: No, August! I won't! I'll not abandon my comrades-in-arms to the enemy's clutches! I'll free them alone if I have to!
August: *Sigh* I suppose this is unavoidable... At least limit yourself to a small handful of troops, and let the others rest.

Leif: Anything of import inside the fort, August?
August: Hmm... The fort is completely vacant. Seems to be deserted. By the look of it, this place was once a prison camp, but it's not in use anymore.
Leif: I see. Then if there's nothing requiring our attention, we should hurry ahead to the River Thracia. Once we cross it, we'll be at Munster's doorstep.
August: Hah... Easier said than done, my prince. I've no doubt the enemy is waiting for us—they likely have established a defensive line at the river. We still have some way to go before our goal. See that you don't let your guard down.
^end
/***EOF***/
@Intro 
Veld: Raydrik proved to be even more useless than I thought... Well, if you want something done right, best do it yourself.
Manfroy: Veld... Explain yourself!
Veld: Archbishop Manfroy! Wh-When did you get here, Your Eminence?
Manfroy: Spare me your sniveling formalities. Why is killing one person—a child, need I remind you—so difficult for you? The Leonster heir has humiliated you at every turn!
Veld: I'm deeply sorry, Your Eminence. I'll claim Prince Leif's head before the day is over, I assure you.
Manfroy: See that you do—otherwise, it will be your head that hangs from the castle gates. More than just this battle is riding on the boy's death... If he lives, all our efforts to incite war in Thracia and assassinate Prince Quan will be for nothing.
Veld: I'm amazed the ruse has held for this long, frankly. The fools still think Travant was behind it all.
Manfroy: Eheheheh! I almost pity the Thracians, in the depths of their ignorance... Did it never occur to them that Travant had no way of knowing when Quan's forces would march, or what route they would take? Capitalizing on Travant's ambitions to make North and South Thracia tear each other apart... Everything happened exactly as you predicted it would.
Veld: I'm honored by your words, Your Eminence...
Manfroy: But it's simply given way to a new problem: you underestimated the Leonster heir, did you not? It would have been best to nip him in the bud and kill him when Castle Leonster first fell, when he was little more than an infant...
Veld: It is true that Prince Leif has brought all the rebellious children of North Thracia together in one, organized revolt... But if we strike them down now, when they all act as one and their morale is at its highest, their spirits will be broken. And in my defense, the boy has done us a great service by defeating so many of House Friege's battalions. Without realizing it, he's eliminated one of the few military powers that could've threatened our rule. Besides, while he may be Leonster's heir, he's a mere child without enough holy blood to so much as lift the Gáe Bolg himself. He's a posturing rebel who's deluded himself into thinking he's a real prince. He cannot hope to triumph against me.
Manfroy: Hmm... You make a good case for yourself, Veld. Very well. I shall grant you a second chance—and as a token of my favor, I bestow upon you five of my finest creations, the Deadlords.
Veld: I'm most grateful, Your Eminence. Combined with the one I just finished crafting, that makes for a total of six... Now the barrier will be impenetrable!
Manfroy: Then I'll leave you to it, Veld. I trust you'll be along shortly to bring me the good news...
Veld: I won't fail you, Your Eminence.

Leif: Is everyone ready, August?
August: All of our troops understand the plan: small squads have each been stationed in front of every altar. Let us hope they're all capable of defeating the horrors that lurk within...
Leif: I know they are. Everyone is aware of what's at stake: the seals inside each of the six altars have to be broken to open the way to Veld.
August: It's more complicated than that, my prince. One of our men must stand upon the center of an altar to break its seal. Each of the six altars must have one of our soldiers standing on its center all at once for the barrier to be dispelled. Hrm... I fear reinforcements will arrive if we take too long to coordinate this. You need to prepare yourself to sacrifice some of our troops if it means getting rid of the barrier more quickly.
Leif: I understand... But let's hope that won't be necessary. Come on! Let's end this!

@Battle 
Veld: Ah! What?! It can't be... Have those children broken through the seal?! Ngh... Leif, you heathen... You're an impudent brat standing in the way of the divine! I'll send you to oblivion to meet your parents—but not before you spend a century or two decorating my altar as a petrified statue!

@Boss 
Veld: Heh, heh, heh... You dare to cross me? Don't you know the power I wield? Let me show you just what a grave mistake you've made!

Veld: Gah... This is my... own folly... But... this isn't the end...! Even if you kill me, Loptous is eternal... and the rebirth of his empire is nigh! I may die here... but you'll struggle and flounder for the rest of your days...! Heh, heh, heh... Eheheheheheh...! 

Veld: Forgive me, Archbishop Manfroy... Ugh...

@End 
Leif: We... won...? Is it... really over?
August: It is. Breathe easy, my prince—your long fight has at last come to an end. With your victory today, the Loptians' influence in North Thracia has been eradicated. At long last, the Thracian people have been liberated from the tyranny of Loptous and his mortal servants. This is all because of your perseverance and strength, my prince. You never gave up.
Leif: No, August... The people have you to thank as well. Without your guidance, I never would've made it this far. I started this journey knowing nothing, and you taught me how to be a ruler. I thank you, August—as a monarch, and as your student. I was truly fortunate to have met you...
August: This is... I... I'm not sure what to say... I need to tell you something, my prince. I would be a poor teacher if I continued to keep secrets from you now... It was not by chance that our lives intersected. In fact, I only became your tactician because I was ordered to do so by my benefactor. Truth be told, at the outset I thought liberating North Thracia was an impossible task. But as I spent more time by your side, as I saw how focused you were on freeing your motherland, how earnestly you wanted it... Before I knew it, I had genuinely begun to believe in you. I hope you can forgive me for all the times I doubted you.
Leif: I'll not lie, August... The times when you voiced skepticism of my abilities did always weigh heavily on my heart. Yet you also taught me how to expand my perspective: to realize the depth of everyone's suffering and sorrow. My upbringing, strange and sheltered as it was, left me lacking the tools to understand the lives of my subjects. And I think I still have even more to learn... I need you, August. I'd be honored if you stayed by my side and continued to teach me.
August: Ah... As you wish it, my prince, so shall it be.

Finn: Lord Leif! A messenger just arrived from Lord Seliph! Conote has been seized by his army!
Leif: Huh? Conote has already fallen?! What of Lord Seliph...?
Finn: He's alive and well, milord—fear not. The message said that he rides for Munster as we speak to help us capture the city. I imagine word has not yet reached him of our victory. He should be in for a most welcome surprise when he arrives.
Leif: I can hardly believe it... For Lord Seliph to conquer such a formidable fortress as Castle Conote in a single day... My only regret is that I couldn't kill King Bloom with my own hands.
Finn: I sympathize, milord—but as regrets go, you could have ended today with far worse. Remember, North Thracia is now free again. In the streets of Munster, everyone, young and old, celebrates the victory of the Liberation Army. The people cheer your name—they shout that Thracia has been liberated by the son of the late hero Quan.
Leif: Finn... We've been through so many long and painful days, haven't we? But however hard I had it, you had it so much worse... You possess more patience and endurance than anyone I've ever known. You've been there for me my whole life. Whenever I felt overwhelmed, I knew I could always rely on you, Finn. You sacrificed everything to raise me. It's like I spent my whole childhood sitting on your lap... How can I ever repay you?
Finn: L-Lord Leif... Of the four kingdoms of North Thracia—Leonster, Ulster, Conote, and Munster—none save Leonster have a surviving male heir. Hence, the people want to be united under your rule. No others remain who could take the throne. Lord Leif... Please, fulfill their hopes. Be the answer to their prayers. The tragedy of Thracia is that these small kingdoms have been doomed to repeat their petty civil wars, time and time again. Unify Thracia and build a single, prosperous kingdom, as the land once was in the days of Dáinn and Njörun. Doing so was the dream of your late father, Lord Quan—and if you truly wish to repay me, milord, it is what I would ask of you as well.
Leif: I would move the heavens themselves for you, Finn. Of course I'll do as you ask! I've come this far—I won't start running now. I have a duty to protect North Thracia. Unifying all of Thracia will depend on the will of King Travant, but I'll do everything in my power to make it happen. I know that's not ideal, but... Would that be enough to repay you, Finn?
Finn: It's... all I could have dreamed of, Lord Leif.

Eyvel: Guess that's the end of this whole mess... Hard to believe this all started with Raydrik kidnapping Little Nan and Mareeta, huh? Ah, Little Lord... It breaks my heart to do this, but me and some of the others have got to head back to Fiana.
Leif: What?! You're not coming with me, Eyvel?! Why would you do that?
Eyvel: We may have kicked the Loptians out, but there's still lots of pirates around. I can't just leave Fiana and Iz to fend for themselves. Besides, how useful do you think we'd be? You've got a whole army of knights and mages and priests now—you don't need us.
Leif: But... Eyvel...
Eyvel: Little Lord, I'll be looking forward to the day when you beat the Empire for good and come back to Leonster. When that day comes—not if, but WHEN—I'll bring everybody to Leonster to celebrate.
Leif: ...I'd like that. All right, Eyvel, it's a deal: I promise I'll come back, and you promise to have everyone ready to celebrate. But you might be waiting for a while, so please be patient with me...
Eyvel: I don't think we'll be waiting for long, actually. I believe in you, Little Leif. Go show the Empire what it's like to have you for an enemy!

Miranda: Prince Leif, something's been on my mind for a little while.
Leif: Princess Miranda? What's wrong?
Miranda: I... I owe you an apology.
Leif: If this is about Dryas, what happened was my fault. You're not to blame for it, Princess Miranda. And if you haven't heard, Ulster was liberated by Lord Seliph's army. I'm sure your people will be glad to know you're alive and well.
Miranda: Uh, that's... that's delightful to hear, but... Frankly, my people want more than just to see me again. They want to unify with Leonster. My senior vassals and statesmen are all advising that I wed you. They've been nagging me about it for quite some time, actually. Those bloviating imbeciles think they can boss me around just because I'm a woman...
Leif: Well, out of the royal families of North Thracia's four kingdoms, you and I are the only survivors. They can't be the only people thinking this way. But even so, I still...
Miranda: Do you not like me, Prince? If that's the case, I'll get over it, but—
Leif: No, it's not that simple. I just... I've still got things left to do. The battle to unify Thracia has just begun, the Loptr Church and Grannvale Empire are still threats, and North Thracia needs protecting. Right now, I just don't have the time to figure out if I truly love someone or not...
Miranda: ...... Then I shall return to Ulster to await your answer. But if you don't manage to defeat Travant and South Thracia, consider my offer of marriage withdrawn!

Linoan: Lord Leif...
Leif: Linoan! Ah... I imagine this must be very bittersweet for you... North Thracia has returned to our rightful hands, but Tarrah remains in Thracia's clutches. You know I'll stop at nothing to recapture the city, so won't you travel with me for a while longer?
Linoan: Of course I will, Lord Leif!

Deen: Duchess Linoan, though it pains me to say it, I cannot go with you.
Linoan: How can that be, Deen? Why can't you?!
Deen: Thracia is my motherland. North and South shall soon face each other in battle, and I cannot fight against my home. You should stay with the prince, Linoan. He'll protect you from now on.
Linoan: Deen... How can you say such a thing...? I... I couldn't bear to go on without you.
Deen: Linoan...?
Linoan: I will abandon my plans to retake Tarrah if it means you would stay, Dean. So please, remain at my side...
Deen: Don't say something so stupid, Linoan! This isn't like you at all! Ah, dammit... Now that I think about it, I'd be hurting both Prince Leif and my sworn lord if I left with things the way they are now. I have to avoid that, no matter what it takes...

Nanna: ……
Mareeta: Now look here, Little Lady! You've just got to say it! Right now!
Nanna: B-But—
Mareeta: If you don't say it now, you'll only regret it! Or are you comfortable with staying the "cute little sister" forever?
Nanna: But Mareeta—
Mareeta: Ugh, you're just going in circles! I'm getting impatient... Hey, Leif!
Leif: What is it, Mareeta? Gah! What's got you looking so... grim?
Mareeta: Go on, Nanna. You can do it!
Nanna: L-Lord Leif...
Leif: Oh, Nanna! There hasn't been a chance for just the two of us to talk. I wanted to thank you. You've been just as big a help as anyone, and I wanted to make sure you knew how grateful I am.
Nanna: You give me too much credit... I hardly did anything at all.
Leif: I think not! We were raised like siblings, and you've always been there for me, Nanna. You were always there to support me, to comfort me when I needed it, and I wouldn't have fought half as well if I didn't have you to keep my spirits up. When this is all over, I'll go looking for Lachesis—and if I find her, I'll tell her, "I've fallen in love with your daughter, Nanna. I humbly ask for your blessing to wed her."
Nanna: Ah...! Lord Leif...
Leif: I know we have a long way to go before our battle is over, but I hope you'll stay by my side, Nanna.
Nanna: Of... Of course I will! I'm honored, Lord Leif...
August: Prince Leif, Lord Seliph is here to see you.
Seliph: It seems my reinforcements were unnecessary. I'm relieved to see you safe, Prince Leif.
Leif: Lord Seliph! We're only here because you intervened at Leonster. The credit for this victory is yours.
Seliph: No, North Thracia was liberated by you, Prince, with your own strength—I merely played a momentary role, nothing more. All of North Thracia is agreed on uniting under your rule, it seems. If a country that vast and wealthy were to join the fight against the Empire, my Liberation Army would have cause for celebration. Prince Leif, will you continue to fight alongside me? There's still much left to be done, but if we were to join forces, I know we could overcome any challenge in our way. If you would accept it, I offer you a vow of eternal friendship—to live and die as one, just as our fathers vowed before us.
Leif: I'm honored to accept your oath! After all we've been through, I think of you less as a cousin and more as an older brother. Nothing could make me happier than the idea of pooling our strength to create a brighter future for everyone!
Seliph: Then let us swear it upon this sword! We may have been born apart, but we shall die as one! As your friend, as your sworn brother, we shall join hands and deliver Jugdral from this evil! This I vow to you!
Leif: And I vow just the same to you—an undying oath, and may the stars themselves perish before it is broken!

@Narration 
Thus, Leif's battle, which started in the remote village of Fiana and ended with the liberation of North Thracia, came to a close. Yet although Leif's battle had ended, the war for Jugdral has just begun. In South Thracia, Travant's kingdom has already amassed great power. In the Grannvale Empire, Crown Prince Julius, the Scion of Darkness and incarnation of Loptous, is still alive and well. Now, in year 777 of the Grannvale calendar, the world stands on the brink of a new era...
/***EOF***/
@Intro 
Perne: Something's fishy... What's goin' on outside?
Troude: Bad news, Perne. Somebody's broken into the manor. Soldiers, by the look of it.
Perne: Imperial guardsmen, maybe...? Damn... What's happened to Salem?
Troude: Didn't see him. He might be dead... I'll go check it out. Wait here.
Tina: Ya look more uptight than my sister after a week of fasting! Has... Has somethin' happened?
Perne: The Imperial Army's come to bring the hammer down on us, that's what. Argh, a pox on 'em all! Those entitled louts...
Tina: Th-The Empire's here...?
Perne: You got an awful funny look on your face, kiddo. Don't tell me you were thinkin' of runnin' off while the army's got us busy! Don't be stupid, young'un. I'd never let such a useful little moppet just slip away!
Tina: B-But why...? Why you gotta be so cruel to me all the time? L-Look, I wasn't thinkin' anything funny!
Perne: Nuh-uh, you ain't gettin' off that easy. If you keep gettin' stupid ideas about runnin' away, I won't hesitate to punish you again. You got that?
Tina: Eeek! No, no, not another punishment! I'm sorry! I'll be good, I promise!
Perne: Well, we'll just see about that, won't we? Now be a good girl and go help Troude with that Thief staff of yours. Get a move on, runt!

Salem: Perne is a reasonable man. If I can just talk to him, I'm sure I can make him understand the situation.
Leif: Are you... offering to help us, Salem?
Salem: Truth be told, I haven't made up my mind yet. But we've more pressing concerns at present, do we not?

Leif: Is something amiss, Lifis? You look terribly pale.
Lifis: Ergh... Look, Prince, here's the thing... If it's all the same to you, can I just sit this one out? Can't somebody else fill in for me?
August: ...You wouldn't happen to be acquainted with these bandits, would you? You mentioned you lived near here when you were a child.
Lifis: Heh, well, about that... There's just this one guy that I, uh, don't get along with too well. If he's here... Look, just leave me out of this one, OK? Pretty please?
August: Is that it? Bah, what a petty reason... Report to the front lines at once!
Lifis: C'mon, don't make me beg! Just this once? Please? Pretty please with sugar on top?
August: The prince has spoken! You have your orders!

Lara: Um, excuse me...
Leif: Lara? What's wrong?
Lara: The bandit leader, Perne, he's... he's not a bad person, you know.
Leif: Hm? Do you know him, Lara?
Lara: Yeah, I... I do. Up until a year ago, I was a dancer in a traveling troupe of performers. They treated me like dirt, but there wasn't anything I could do about it because I... because I was their property. I'd been sold to them as a child. Perne rescued me from that, an' set me free.
Leif: And from there, you became a thief... Is that about right?
Lara: That's about the whole of it, yeah. Lord Leif, please, you've got to let me talk to him. I just... I just need to see Perne, an' talk this whole thing out!

@Recruit-Talk 
%Salem,Perne
Salem: That's enough, Perne! No more violence!
Perne: Salem?! The hell you doin' fightin' with the enemy? What, have you sold us out already? How much is the Empire payin' you for this?
Salem: You've got it all wrong, you idiot! These people aren't with the Empire! This is Prince Leif's Liberation Army, and they're no enemy of ours!
Perne: "Liberation Army"? Never heard of 'em. Who are they?
Salem: They're people who share our value of independence, and that should be all you need to know! I can explain the rest later, but for now, you have to lower your sword!
Perne: Hmm... Clearly, there's a bigger picture here I'm not seein'. You just want us to stop fightin' and hash this thing out peaceful-like, right? ...Well, if this is comin' from YOU, I expect you've thought through all the angles already. Oh, Salem, that's no fair! You know I've got a soft spot for you! All right, all right, we'll do things your way.
Salem: Good. Thank you, Perne. But Troude is still fighting. We both know he'll only stop if he hears it from you directly.
Perne: Hah! Stubborn as a mule, that one—but he's one of my best men. I'll go talk to him before he gets himself killed.

%Lifis,Perne
Lifis: Ah, hell... Not good!
Perne: What in the...? Lifis, is that you? You old dog! How long's it been?
Lifis: Y-Yeah, uh, I've been gone a while... Er, Perne... sir...
Perne: Hah! You haven't changed a bit, kiddo! You at least learn to stop wetting the bed, junior?
Lifis: H-Hey, gimme some credit, wouldja? Let's not talk too much about ancient history!
Perne: Really? Cuz I remember you bein' the biggest crybaby in the village, an' we're just talkin' here, right? Not gonna cry about it, are you? Ah, seems like it was just yesterday that all the kids would chase you 'round the village an' beat you somethin' fierce... But you're all grown-up now, an' you're not gonna start cryin' about it, right?
Lifis: ...You were always the ringleader. Every time, you were the one that started it, Perne...
Perne: Hm? You say somethin', kiddo?
Lifis: N-No, nothing. Nothing at all...
Perne: Oh, that's right, you joined up with this "Liberation Army," right? Been hearin' rumors about 'em. Looks like they keep you pretty busy, huh? Seems mighty interestin'. Well, Li'l Lifis, looks like it's your lucky day! I'm in the mood to join up with 'em an' keep an eye on you. Where's your leader at?
Lifis: What?!
Perne: Hey, you got a problem with that?! I'm all ears, Li'l Lifis!
Lifis: ...No, there's no problem...
Perne: It'll be just like the old days! You'll see!
Lifis: Ugh... It's happening all over again... I'm stuck with the bumpkin born from Loptous' own bosom...
Perne: Hey, you feelin' OK there, little buddy? You're lookin' pretty pale.
Lifis: Huh? Oh, uh, I am? Uh, I must've... caught a cold. Just now. Yeah, that's it! A cold. Ahahaha...
Perne: Huh...?
Lifis: Oh, Perne? While you're in such a generous mood, could you do something about that mercenary? He's givin' my people trouble.
Perne: Hm? Oh, you mean Trude? Leave it to me! Trude is one of my best men. I'll talk to him before he gets himself killed.

%Lara,Perne
Lara: Perne!
Perne: Yeah? Huh...? Lara? Is that you? What're you doing here? Wait, don't tell me! You just missed me so much you couldn't help but come runnin' back into my arms, right?
Lara: Er... Would it make you happy if I actually said that?
Perne: H-Hey, what's got you so serious? Yer face is all scrunched up like ya just swallowed a whole lemon. C'mon, now. Get real. What would I want with some little kid runnin' around me, gettin' all up in my business? Turn 'round and get yerself back to Munster, kiddo.
Lara: So that's it then, huh? You're shooing me away like a stray dog, just like before... I at least thought you liked it when I danced. I still remember you comin' to see me perform, watchin' me like I was the only thing in the world...
Perne: W-Well, yeah, but that was before I realized you were just a kid. *Sigh* Look, if it means that much to ya... Yeah, I did like watchin' you dance. An' it was more'n, like, attraction or whatever. It just made me feel... alive. Like... I was invigorated, y'know? But ya hated it, right? So it's for the best that you quit.
Lara: Y-Yeah... Well, I didn't hate dancing, I just hated the way that troupe treated me, is all. So... If you want me to, Perne, I can go back to doin' it for you.
Perne: Look, don't be stupid...
Lara: Not JUST for you, I mean! For everybody! Maybe I could make everyone feel a little bit more lively with my dancing...
Perne: Huh? Who's "everybody"?
Lara: Prince Leif an' the whole North Thracian Liberation Army! That's who I'm here with, y'know! Not that I'm much help, myself...
Perne: Oh-ho! So that's what got all this ruckus started, huh? All right, Lara, I'll tell ya what: you go back to dancin', an' I'll come along with you an' the Liberation Army.
Lara: R-Really, Perne?! All right, it's a deal!
Perne: Good! I wasn't keen on holin' up in Dakia Forest an' robbin' people forever, anyhow. Liberating North Thracia, huh...? Oh, this is gonna be SO much fun!

%Perne,Troude
Perne: Hey, Troude, sheathe your sword! There's no need to fight anymore.
Troude: Huh? But... why? What's goin' on?
Perne: These folks are with the Liberation Army, an' I'm throwin' my lot in with 'em. You're more'n welcome to come along, if it suits you.
Troude: Ah, I get it... So THESE folks are the liberators I've been hearin' so much about. I thought their morale was too high fer them to be Imperial troops. So yer joinin' up with 'em, huh? Looks fun enough, I s'pose. Why don't I come with you? We men of the Dandelion gotta stick together, right?
Perne: Hey, that's the spirit! I tell ya, you've had my back for so long, I'd hate for things to go south now. I'll be countin' on ya now more than ever, Troude. You'd better be up for it!
Troude: Hah! "Let the die be cast," as they say. Leave everything to me!

%Safy,Tina
Safy: Tina?! Wh-What in blazes are you doing here?
Tina: Oh, Big Sis! *Sniffle, whimper*
Safy: Tina, dear, why the tears? What's happened to you? Start from the beginning. Why did you leave Tarrah?
Tina: I w-wanted to help you! *Sniffle* Just thinkin' of you out there, all on your lonesome... Well, I just couldn't stand the thought of it! So I left the city! But then that big bully Perne caught hold of me! He's a thief, an' he's been treatin' me as his personal slave to help him steal more stuff!
Safy: A slave?! Th-That can't be! Who would do such a thing? ...Tina, what exactly did he make you do?
Tina: Steal things for him, mostly... With my Thief and Unlock staves, you know? He said those were what made me useful...
Safy: W-Well, couldn't you just refuse? Surely he'd listen to the objections of a little girl scarcely old enough to lift a broom... Wouldn't he?
Tina: You don't understand! If I said no, he'd do awful, horrible, terrible things to me!
Safy: H-He would?!
Tina: Uh-huh...
Safy: Tina, please, you must tell me what he did to you! Gods give me strength... I've steeled myself for whatever wickedness it is!
Tina: *Sniffle, whimper* H-He... He'd take a big, hairy caterpillar and wave it in front of my face! Or even drop it on top of my head! It was so gross and icky... I thought I'd die right then and there!
Safy: …Is that all?
Tina: Uh-huh... Oh, Big Sis, it was so awful! I'm gettin' shivers just tellin' you about it now!
Safy: *Sigh* Oh, Tina...
Tina: Yeah?
Safy: ...It's nothing. Listen, I told you to wait in Tarrah until I returned. Promise me you'll do as I say from now on, all right?
Tina: Yeah, of course! I'm sorry, Big Sis. Say, I saw that Lord Leif fella fightin' earlier... He's awful cute, isn't he? Aw, somebody like him would be my dream guy! Hmm... But he couldn't just have good looks, he'd have to be a prince, too... What do you think, Big Sis?
Safy: Tina... I... I'm a little worn-out right now. Let's... talk about this later, all right?
Tina: Okie-dokie, Big Sis!

@Recruit-Battle 
Perne: You idiots got any idea who you're dealin' with? I'm not just any bandit, you know—I'm Perne, premier purloiner of priceless property!

Perne: Ugh... It's been... quite the ride...

Perne: What, you think ol' Pilferin' Perne owes you one? Bite me!

Troude: That's it, you're dead!

Troude: Tch... Was I... not good enough?

Troude: Next time I see you, you're dead meat!

Tina: Oh, Big Sis... If you're out there, I could use your help right about now...!

Tina: B-Big Sis... I'm... sorry...

Tina: Th-Thank you for saving me! I'm off to find my Big Sis, Safy, now.

@End 
Dryas: Dawn is breaking, and this battle has allowed the rest of the men a much-needed breather. We must make haste to Tarrah!

Perne: Well, I'll be damned! You actually got the better of ol' Troude, eh? Listen, cut him loose. Troude's had my back for a long time, now. No question in my mind he'll come along an' help the Liberation Army, too.

Leif: Well, Perne proved to be a thoughtful man—and a friend of the Liberation Army as well.
Lifis: Prince, you've got no idea who that snake really is... Ah, dammit all...
/***EOF***/
@Opening 
Having overcome countless obstacles, Leif finally stood before the gates of Castle Munster. Better known today as "the Twofold Traitor's Lair," the castle towered above the city, intimidating the Liberation Army with its sheer size. Once, Leif had fled these very walls as a mere fugitive, but now he returned as a conqueror. He stood ready to rescue a lost loved one—and in so doing, usher in a new era...

@Intro 
Veld: Raydrik, do I hear correctly that you've allowed those rebels to invade the castle?
Raydrik: Ah... If Your Eminence would grant me more time, I'll see to it that the vermin are wiped out.
Veld: Don't promise more than you're capable of. It's obvious to anyone with eyes that the rebels have the overwhelming advantage.
Raydrik: ……
Veld: Even for you, this is pathetic. I thought you'd at least be more useful than this, but it seems I overestimated you. I wash my hands of you, Raydrik. Our alliance has come to an end.
Raydrik: Wait, Bishop Veld! Please! If you abandon me now, I... I...
Veld: Not above begging, are we? Oh, very well... I'll consider this a dead man's last request. I shall spare you a battalion of sorcerers from the esteemed Schwarze Rosen.

Ced: Don't let your guard down, Prince. There aren't many of Raydrik's men left, but he's made up the difference by hiring a slew of sellswords. The most dangerous of them all is a swordsman by the name of Galzus. Challenging him directly is suicide.
Leif: Galzus, you say? Hmm... What should we do about him, then?
Ced: Our only option is to lure him close enough for me to ambush him with the Tome of Forseti. Yet even I don't know if that will defeat him...
Leif: We barely have enough troops to stage such a diversion... August, why did you insist on splitting our army in three?
August: Divide and conquer, of a sort. The second group is to rescue the children, and the third will arrest the Loptian bishops. As their tasks are a race against time, that was all the more reason to send them in ahead of us.
Leif: Rescuing the children goes without saying, but why bother with the Loptian bishops?
August: There's a place of worship in the east wing of the castle where the Loptians congregate. The bishops there pose a grave threat to our army, as they wield Berserk and Sleep staves.
Leif: I see... So the task of defeating Raydrik falls solely to our group, then?
August: Indeed. There won't be time for the others to circle back around and rejoin us.
Ced: We're certainly in for a difficult battle, Prince Leif... Leave the weaker foes to me. You just focus on Raydrik!
Leif: Understood! No matter what it takes, I'll cut him down!

Saias: Raydrik has few soldiers left, Prince, but stay alert: more sellswords yet await us in the castle's halls. The most dangerous of them all is a swordsman by the name of Galzus. Challenging him directly is suicide.
Leif: Galzus, you say? Hmm... What should we do about him, then?
Saias: I can't guarantee this, but if you still have that young woman Mareeta with you, we may be able to avoid fighting him altogether. Galzus appears to have some sort of deep bond with the girl...
Leif: Then Mareeta could be—Wait! August, why did you insist on splitting our army in three?
August: Divide and conquer, of a sort. The second group is to rescue the children, and the third will arrest the Loptian bishops. As their tasks are a race against time, that was all the more reason to send them in ahead of us.
Leif: Rescuing the children goes without saying, but why bother with the Loptian bishops?
August: There's a place of worship in the east wing of the castle where the Loptians congregate. The bishops there pose a grave threat to our army, as they wield Berserk and Sleep staves.
Leif: I see... So the task of defeating Raydrik falls solely to our group, then?
August: Indeed. There won't be time for the others to circle back around and rejoin us.
Saias: This moment was inevitable... We're certainly in for a difficult battle, Prince Leif, but remember: you're not alone. I'll do everything in my power to help—you just focus on Raydrik!
Leif: Understood! No matter what it takes, I'll cut him down!

August: Raydrik has nearly run out of men, my prince, but take heed: countless sellswords yet await us in the castle's halls.
Leif: If Raydrik still has so many troops, why did you insist on splitting our army in three?
August: Divide and conquer, of a sort. The second group is to rescue the children, and the third will arrest the Loptian bishops. As their tasks are a race against time, that was all the more reason to send them in ahead of us.
Leif: Rescuing the children goes without saying, but why bother with the Loptian bishops?
August: There's a place of worship in the east wing of the castle where the Loptians congregate. The bishops there pose a grave threat to our army, as they wield Berserk and Sleep staves.
Leif: I see... So the task of defeating Raydrik falls solely to our group, then?
August: Indeed. There won't be time for the others to circle back around and rejoin us. We're certainly in for a difficult battle, my prince, but we've been in worse situations. I know you have the strength to prevail!
Leif: I do! No matter what it takes, I'll cut Raydrik down!

@Recruit-Talk 
%Mareeta,Galzus
Mareeta: It's you... The swordsman that rescued me... I always hoped I'd see you again.
Galzus: What'd you come back here for?! You're still just a little girl... Swords ain't toys, you know!
Mareeta: Back then, when I was possessed by that cursed blade, I had a vision of my father. We were separated when I was very young, but I still remember him clearly. He was a towering mountain of a man, strong as an ox, and yet... gentle. Galzus the sellsword... You're... It's you! You're my father!
Galzus: Ah...!
Mareeta: Why aren't you saying anything?! Please! Please, just answer me!
Galzus: I... You don't blame me...?
Mareeta: I'm the one to blame... Those slavers only caught hold of me because I didn't listen to you. Besides, I wasn't their prisoner for very long. Commander Eyvel rescued me just after it happened. I never held a grudge against you, Father!
Galzus: ...I'm sorry. I searched for a long, long time, but you never turned up... Besides, with the man I am now... with all the blood I've got on my hands... I figured it was better if you didn't have anything to do with me, wherever you were.
Mareeta: Just like that...?! It doesn't matter what's happened since then! We'll always be family...!
Galzus: ......That lady, the swordswoman who got turned to stone... She's the one who rescued you from those slavers, right? The one who's raised you ever since?
Mareeta: That's right...
Galzus: ......Then there's no way I'm leavin' her behind. A man of Isaach always repays his debts!

@Battle 
Child: Huh? This door sure is strange, ain't it?

Child: Oh! Uh... I guess it's busted... Heeey, guys! Wait for meee!

@Boss 
Raydrik: I saw your grandfather die! I watched your father's castle burn! I outlived them and I'll outlive you!

Raydrik: Ugggh...! This is... absurd... How could... these... children... Bishop Veld... I beg of you... I don't want... to die... Help... me...

@Recruit-Battle 
Galzus: Fate must really have it out for you, makin' your path cross mine...

Galzus: Ugh... Mareeta... I'm...

Galzus: Tch... Being at the mercy of an enemy... I've fallen so far...

@End 
August: We fought for every inch, but Castle Munster is ours. Bards will sing of this battle for years to come.
Leif: But is Raydrik really dead, August? After the finishing blow was dealt, his body just vanished.
August: Some wicked force is at work here, of that I have no doubt. The whole castle is enveloped in a foul energy... I suspect it's connected to the secret temple of the Loptr Church, which lies underneath this very castle. Until that vile place is reduced to rubble, we cannot consider Munster truly liberated.
Leif: A secret temple... So this is the Loptians' stronghold in Thracia.
August: Indeed. The man in charge of the temple is a bishop named Veld—he's a close friend and confidant to Manfroy himself.
Leif: Bishop Veld... What kind of man is he?
August: He leads the parish of Loptians that infest Thracia with their presence. It is his responsibility to oversee the region's child hunts—and to sic the Schwarze Rosen on any villages who resist. Raydrik was little more than Veld's pawn. And according to the prisoners we've rescued since, it was he who turned Lady Eyvel to stone.
Leif: Wh-What?! That's... That's unforgivable! This man, Veld... He's the spider at the center of it all...

Leif: Speaking of which, August... Now that Eyvel's rescue is within our grasp, what can we do to cure her?
August: As I mentioned before, the Staff of Kia could free her, but only those of Manfroy's bloodline can wield it. We're no closer to finding a solution to that dilemma than when we first fled Castle Munster...
Leif: So after all this, we're still just as powerless?! We can't save Eyvel...?! Argh... Was all this just a waste?!
Sara: Nothing's been wasted, silly. I'm right here. I'll use the staff.
Leif: Sara...?! You don't mean... How can you use the staff?!
Sara: Because I know how the seal works. I mean, it was Grandfather that sealed it up in the first place, so...
Leif: Grandfather...? It can't be... Sara, you're Manfroy's granddaughter?!
Sara: Don't make me talk about Grandfather... I never liked him. He was such a weird man. Let's just hurry up and save your friend. Don't forget the staff, Lord Leif!
/***EOF***/
@Intro
Shiva: I shouldn't have to say this, Lifis, but don't you dare lay a hand on the cleric.
Lifis: Oh, uh... R-Right. Got it.

Lifis: You could stand to give me the time of day, Safy. We both know I could get anything you want. Just go along with me, yeah?
Safy: I have given my word to see Lady Linoan's hopes realized. Unless you wish to join us in fighting for Tarrah, I will not falter.
Lifis: T-Take up arms against the Empire?! May as well stand on the shore an' try to push the tide back!
Safy: Perhaps it sounds impossible, but the alternative is to do nothing as innocent children are ritually slaughtered. No matter the cost, no one with a drop of humanity could stand by and allow this to continue. We're not naïve. Everyone knows the risks—we know we'll likely die. But this isn't just about us! This is bigger than one city or one society—this is about resisting the grip of damnation itself. Loptous beckons, Lifis. The world hurtles ever closer toward his jaws. Tarrah is the only place in Jugdral still in dispute—where will you be when history is written?
Lifis: Well... I... Look, you're out to fulfill your Lady's hopes, right? If I say yes, will you fulfill one of my own hopes?
Safy: If it is within my power, I will.
Lifis: It's a deal. I'll talk to my boys, make sure everybody is on board. But don't forget our little arrangement.
Safy: Very well.

Leif: Of all the rotten luck...! We just had to land right as it was getting dark.
August: The timing isn't ideal, granted, but with a torch in hand, your men will be able to see a ways ahead.
Leif: I... don't believe we have any flint or tinder handy. What are our chances without torches?
August: Your men won't be totally blind, but they'll barely be able to see in front of them. Still, I imagine you can find a spare torch or two lying around somewhere.
Leif: Then let's get moving. There's no time to waste!

@Battle 
Pirate: Boss, you really mean to make for Tarrah? I'm goin' pale jus' thinkin' about fightin' the Empire... I mean, we might as well jus' jab a knife in our necks now an' save everybody some time!
Lifis: I know, I know, I'm just leading her on! Gotta get my foot in the door with that lass. An' just who does Shiva think he is, talking to me like that? Did that cutthroat sellsword grow a conscience when nobody was looking?
Pirate: Hey Boss, we got a couple do-gooders scurryin' in from the west!
Lifis: What? Here? You gotta be joking! ...All right boys, let's go say hello! The sharks are gonna be well-fed tonight!

@Battle-Talk 
%Leif,Eyvel
Leif: The pirates seem to have greater numbers... Can we make it through this, Commander?
Eyvel: Numbers aren't everything. We keep our heads about us, we'll make it through just fine.
Leif: O-Of course, Commander. Still, would you happen to know anything useful about this Lifis thug?
Eyvel: Hah! "Thug" is too generous for Lifis. He's small-time—ain't even worth killing. When we get our hands on him, take him alive, and don't let him go after the fighting's done. We'll bring him back to Iz and see that he gets justice for his crimes.

@Recruit-Battle 
Shiva: Not too bright, are you...?

Shiva: How... careless. All this way, just to die... here...

Shiva: What a naïve bunch... Still, I owe them a debt now.

Lifis: H-Hey, wait a minute! I ain't that bad, really! Maybe I been wrong here and there, but not enough to deserve this!

Lifis: Ugh...! S-Safy, I... need...

Lifis: Much obliged, moron. Ah, looks like I gotta build things up from scratch now...

@End 
Leif: The pirates seem to have escaped, but never mind that—is the cleric safe?
August: Ahem. I've found her, sire.
Safy: Thank you, kind folk. I owe you my— Hm? Is that...?
Leif: I beg your pardon, milady. Battle is dirty business, and if I have some grime or blood on my face—
Safy: Have you forgotten me already, Lord Leif? It's me, Safy—we met in Tarrah.
Leif: Safy, you say? I knew a young woman at the monastery in Tarrah by that name.
Safy: I only had the honor of seeing you two or three times, milord. I suppose I wasn't as memorable as I thought! Still, you left an impression on me all the same. When you departed the city, it was I who wiped Lady Linoan's face of tears.
Leif: Ah, now I can place you. Your father was a priest, and you were rather close with Linoan, were you not?
Safy: As close as a woman of common birth can be, I suppose. The Duke of Tarrah was Lady Linoan's father, and I am more her servant than peer.
Leif: That aside, how did you come to be here? Has something happened to Linoan?
Safy: You mean to say you don't know what's happened to Tarrah since you left? Ah... Let me start from the beginning. After the Duke passed away, the Empire installed their own governor. The man proved to be a walking pox, inflicting tragedy after tragedy upon us. Just this year, they even began child hunts in Tarrah.
Leif: Child hunts...?
Safy: That proved to be the breaking point. The people of Tarrah revolted, installing Lady Linoan as rightful Duchess. They hired any sellsword who could stand upright, and then sent offerings of gold and gemstones to the Empire's leading noblemen. It was... an admirable effort, but King Bloom of Thracia did not forgive such a slight, and summoned the Imperial Army to besiege Tarrah. The sellswords proved craven and fled, and now only a handful of militiamen stand between the Empire and our city. Lady Linoan bade me leave and seek out any who would fight in Tarrah's defense.
Leif: Are things truly that dire...? The Duke sheltered me for half a decade before the Empire learned of it and had him executed. Not a day goes by that I don't think of his generosity... You're seeking folk to aid Tarrah? Look no more. I pledge to deliver Tarrah from this evil. Let's be off, Safy.
Safy: You will be most welcome in Tarrah, Lord Leif. Thank you.

Lifis: Well, don't keep me in suspense. What are you gonna do with me?
Leif: That's up to the villagers of Iz. We're taking you back there to answer for your crimes.
Lifis: We both know what'll happen! You handin' me over to them is as good as killin' me yourself! Safy, c'mon, we had a deal—I said I'd go to Tarrah with you!
Safy: ...Lord Leif, Lifis is not an evil man. He's committed many foul acts as a pirate, yes, but he seemed genuinely repentant when we spoke earlier. Give him a chance to redeem himself in the eyes of the gods.
Leif: ...All right. If Safy believes in you, I can give you a chance for the time being.

Lifis: Hah, I've cheated death once again! Just gotta wait for the right opening, then I'll book it. But come to think of it... If that boy's really the missing Leonster heir, the Empire'd pay mighty well to hear of it... It's worth mulling over, at least. Either way, it'll have to wait until after Safy has given in to my many charms!
/***EOF***/
@Opening 
Already a day behind Dryas, Leif's forces were finally rested and ready. He was just about to march for Ulster when a most unexpected message was delivered to him. It was this moment that marked Leif's beginning down a long road of hardship...

@Intro 
Leif: Everyone is ready, August.
August: Hold a moment, my prince. It seems someone has come to the castle... One of Dryas' men, I believe.
Messenger: Prince Leif! I... I'm sorry...
Leif: Sorry for what? What's happened?
Messenger: Th-The Imperial army counterattacked... We were... slaughtered...
Leif: Wh-What?! Where's Dryas?!
Messenger: Duke Dryas, he... To ensure some of us could escape, he... He rushed the enemy's flank. I'm sorry. He... met his end...
Leif: Dryas... He's... ......
Messenger: We weren't strong enough... Forgive us!
Leif: Th-That's absurd... This can't be...
August: Prince Leif, time is of the essence. We must withdraw all of our troops at once, before our entire army is massacred.
Leif: No... This can't be happening...
August: Prince Leif! Snap out of it! If we lose our troops now, Duke Dryas will have died for nothing! We owe it to him to save as many of our people as we can!

Bloom: ...Now the maggots understand what the Empire is capable of. I'll leave the rest to you, Wolff. Know that House Friege expects nothing less than Castle Leonster's recapture!
Wolff: It shall be done.

Conomor: So many of our people have died... But as long as I still live, so too does Alster.

Amalda: I have a duty to protect my troops, but... Is this truly right? Ah, Father Sleuf... What I would give to hear your counsel...

@Recruit-Talk 
%Miranda,Conomor
Miranda: Conomor! Stop your foolishness this instant!
Conomor: Princess Miranda?! What are you doing here?!
Miranda: I was rescued by Prince Leif, and at my urging, he commanded his army to come to Ulster's aid. It cost him countless soldiers and one of his closest advisors—and what have YOU done for me?! Just what is all this?! What idiocy compelled you to make Ulster's finest knights into Imperial lapdogs?!
Conomor: Ah... You have my... deepest apologies...
Miranda: The enemy isn't Leonster, you fool! The enemy is the Empire! Command the Knights of Ulster to aid in Leonster's retreat! Do it this instant! As ruler, I hereby declare that all of Ulster is part of Prince Leif's Liberation Army! Their mission is now our own!
Conomor: As you command, milady! Knights of Ulster! From this moment onward, we are part of the North Thracian Liberation Army! Serve Prince Leif as you would serve me! We'll take sanctuary in Castle Leonster, and plot the recapture of our motherland from there! So orders Her Highness Princess Miranda, by royal decree!

%Sleuf,Amalda
Sleuf: Lady Amalda, lower your sword! It's me, Sleuf!
Amalda: Father Sleuf?! What in blazes are you doing here?
Sleuf: I came to meet with you. Prince Leif of the Liberation Army has been waiting for you.
Amalda: You... want me to betray my country? That's not even in the realm of possibility, Father Sleuf. If it was, I... I wouldn't be living in such torment.
Sleuf: Lady Amalda, a country isn't the plaything of a king or nobleman. If a country has lost its way, it's a knight's duty to lead it back. Will you stand idly by and allow evil to consume your home, all out of the fear of being called a traitor?
Amalda: It's not that simple! I have to consider what will become of my troops if I defect!
Sleuf: They can decide for themselves. But your foremost duty is to your country—follow your heart.
Amalda: Mm... I understand. Father Sleuf, I shall fight with the Liberation Army. I know what I must do: rescue the children stolen by the Empire!

@Boss 
Wolff: You're just a stain on my blade!

Wolff: Ugh... This... isn't possible...

@Recruit-Battle 
Amalda: Withdraw your damn troops! Don't die for nothing!

Amalda: Fitting... A life lived steeped in blood can only end with more blood...

Amalda: What am I to do with myself now...?

Conomor: Forgive me... This is for Ulster!

Conomor: Ulster shall yet... rise again...

Conomor: Mm... I'll bear the shame of this defeat for the rest of my days... Every third thought shall be my grave...

@End 
August: And so the Empire's retaliation begins... There's nothing more we can do. We should retreat to the castle.
Leif: August, this is all my fault... It's like I killed Dryas myself...
August: You don't have the luxury of wallowing in regret—not now. There will be time to atone to Duke Dryas after you've defended Leonster. Summon all your patience and discipline—you'll need it for what lies ahead.
Leif: ...You're right.
August: Come now, I do bring some good news. I've heard multiple reports that a large rebellion is taking place in the eastern reaches of Isaach. They seem to be putting up a good fight against the Empire, by all accounts. Do you know who their leader is?
Leif: If the rebellion is in Isaach, couldn't it be Prince Shannan? Finn told me about him... He has the most gifted sword-arm in all the world, and he's beloved by his people... In short, he's a far greater man than I...
August: Of course Prince Shannan is with the rebels, but their leader is someone else.
Leif: That being...?
August: Lord Seliph of House Chalphy. The people of Isaach and Grannvale alike hail him as the "Scion of Light."
Leif: L-Lord Seliph?! Can this be true...?
August: I believe it is—and his father, Lord Sigurd, was your uncle. The Crusader Sigurd... As recently as a decade ago, he was reviled as a traitor, but nowadays he's a popular folk hero. He saw through the Emperor's schemes from the beginning, and died trying to protect the world from his machinations. Bards spread his tale across the land, and it captivated the hearts of every man, woman, and child suffering under the Empire's rule... And so he's become more legend than man. Now, the child of that legend is fighting to realize his father's dream... The people feel hope once again. And blinded by that hope, they wouldn't hesitate to die for his cause... This is a bounty from the gods. We couldn't have crafted a more perfect opportunity ourselves.
Leif: ......What exactly are you saying?
August: I'm saying there's a reason so many people are ready to die for Lord Seliph. It's not just because he's a strong warrior. Our era demands a hero. The people clamor for one, and so... someone has crafted Lord Seliph to be their hero. Forged him, if you will, in much the same way one forges metal into a blade—taking a man and sculpting him into what the people need. Do you understand? No one chooses to become a hero. They're willed into a hero by the people around them, shaped by the needs of others.
Leif: August... Does that mean... the people in my life crafted me to be what they needed, too?
August: Mm... You'll have to come to your own conclusions on the matter. Though I will say this... Recall that Duke Dryas lost an arm protecting you—and now he's traded his life for yours. Have you ever stopped to wonder why he did that? Why do so many people keep sacrificing themselves for you? Why do so many hail you as a hero? Think on that, and think well...

August: The prince has ordered that he not be disturbed, for the time being. You may state your business to me instead.
Man: Oh, well, uh... We fled from Alster, y'see. The Imperials were hot on our trail when your army showed up to help us! We just wanted to give the prince this Master Seal, as a way of sayin' thanks.
August: Leave it with me. I'll deliver it to the prince, and convey your gratitude.
Man: All right. Thank you.
/***EOF***/
@Opening 
Leif's Liberation Army made its way to Munster through the pass formerly guarded by Fort Danzig. Before them stood the vast River Thracia, the largest river in the Thracian Peninsula. It was this river's water that blessed much of North Thracia with rich, fertile land. Just beyond its rapid waves, the city of Munster awaited...

@Intro 
Cowen: You've done plenty, Saias! Quickly, you must begone from here!
Saias: I shall do no such thing! I'll stay at your side until the end, Count!
Cowen: If you value me half as much as you claim, be silent and listen! 
Cowen: Have you already forgotten how my only daughter, my Aida, gave her life to protect you from that fiend Manfroy? Surely your lonely childhood in that isolated monastery cannot have left your memory so easily... 
Cowen: Yet hiding you in such a remote place was all I could do to shield you from him. I could scarcely contain my laughter when you finally came of age and were appointed a military officer at Manfroy's own suggestion—the fool didn't realize who you really were, having lost your trail years prior. Yet his mistake was your gain, and you set to honing your skills as a tactician with a passion knowing who Saias was, despite that not even I knew you possessed. So obvious was your talent that it only took you a decade to rise from a lowly officer to the Royal Bishop of House Velthomer. And for a brief time, you were so trusted by Emperor Arvis that Manfroy couldn't dare harm you, and I was able to rest easy. But that sanctuary has come to an end: with the power of Prince Julius behind them, the Loptr Church now wields more influence than the Emperor himself. You bear the brand of Fjalar, Saias—neither Prince Julius nor Princess Julia inherited her mark. That is why Manfroy fears you so. 
Cowen: For the sake of Fjalar, for the sake of House Velthomer, you must live on to preserve that holy bloodline. The fact of the matter is this: you cannot die here, and so you must hide your true strength. More than just my life is at stake here!

Reinhardt: It's been some time since last we met, Bishop Saias.
Saias: Commander Reinhardt! What are you doing here, milord? I'd heard Princess Ishtar had returned to Miletos—weren't you with her?
Reinhardt: I worry for my little sister... I've stayed behind to see to her safety. Besides, Lady Ishtar has no need of me any longer.
Saias: ...Did the princess really tell you that?
Reinhardt: She did. With a man as powerful as Prince Julius with her, she says, there's no reason for me to escort her as well.
Saias: …… Commander, this is difficult for me to ask, but... I've heard that Lady Olwen has defected to the rebels. Is this true?
Reinhardt: ...It is. But she's little more than a child. I'm certain she's being deceived by the enemy, somehow... If I can just speak with her, I know I can bring her back to her senses.
Saias: Mm... I know that you'll always see her as your little sister, but she's not quite so little anymore. She's a grown adult, Commander. She wasn't going to be the little girl chasing her big brother's coattails forever. How she lives her life is her choice to make. You must accept that.
Reinhardt: How Olwen lives her life... Bishop, do you mean to say that her path has split apart from mine?
Saias: Indeed... Though I do agree you should speak with her, if the gods give you a chance to do so.

Leif: The River Thracia... It's stunning just how vast it is. Its clean, shimmering waters are surely the blessing of Earth Mother Ethnia herself.
August: Indeed? I'm afraid its beauty is lost on me—I see only a river stained red with blood. True, the river has granted this land many blessings, but it also stirs greed in the hearts of men. Countless battles have been fought for control of this river—and now we find ourselves about to fight another. Take heed, my prince. The last king of Leonster—your very own grandfather, King Calf—was slain here.
Leif: That's right... My lord grandfather met his end at this very spot...
August: Ah, at the risk of sounding pedantic, King Calf didn't perish exactly here—he died on the bridge just south of here. He fell in battle when the Knights of Conote—Raydrik's men—suddenly turned against his army, shattering their formation. Now, bear in mind that the river is notoriously easy to defend, but near impossible to attack. The enemy has likely stationed powerful battalions here to halt our advance. I expect this battle will be our most difficult yet, Prince Leif. Steel yourself for what lies ahead...

@Battle-Talk 
%Olwen,Reinhardt
Olwen: Brother...! As soon as I saw the Gelben Ritter were here, I knew you couldn't be far, my lord brother...
Reinhardt: It feels like a lifetime since we last saw each other... Thank the gods we were able to meet again.
Olwen: Brother... I...
Reinhardt: Come now, there will be time to tell me about all that's happened once you're safe. Everyone will be so glad to see you again—every Friege worth a damn has been worried sick about you. Heh, I'm sure you have plenty of good stories to regale them with. Olwen... Let's go back home together.
Olwen: Home... No, I cannot go back to Castle Friege. I can't show my face there until I right the wrongs I helped commit, and rescue the children taken by the Loptians. Don't try to argue—I've already made up my mind.
Reinhardt: Olwen, listen to what you're saying! We're family! You're my darling little sister! I couldn't bear to lose you!
Olwen: I'm more than just your little sister! I'm my own woman! This is the decision I came to after thinking it over on my own. I know what it means for me. I've prepared myself for the anguish it will bring. Not even the words of my own brother could sway my mind now.
Reinhardt: Then... Then that makes us enemies. Do you have it in you to raise your blade against me, Olwen?
Olwen: If you stand in our way, Brother, then... I have no choice.
Reinhardt: I see... So you really are serious about this... It's exactly as Bishop Saias said. You have indeed grown up—that's clear to me now. You've become a formidable woman, Olwen. I'm proud of you. This is the last time I'll be able to treat you as my little sister, and not as my enemy. But as your older brother, I have one last gift for you.
Olwen: This is...?! I recognize this sword! It's your most prized weapon, Brother!
Reinhardt: A token of better days... Princess Ishtar gave me that sacred blade, but I've no need for it now. You can put it to better use.
Olwen: But why? I know how important it is to you.
Reinhardt: That's... That's none of your concern! Now ride back to your army, Olwen! The next time we meet on the battlefield, I'll show you no mercy, sister of mine or no! Am I clear?!

@Battle 
Cowen: Gods above, the enemy has advanced this far? Saias, you must flee! Now!
Saias: No, Count! Come what may, I'll stay by your side!
Cowen: Still your tongue! Just do as I say! The battle is lost!
Saias: Wait! Please! I must—

Saias: ...That's it! NOW! Collapse the bridge! Tell the Gelben Ritter to charge!

Reinhardt: The enemy has finally gotten close enough! In the name of the Gelben Ritter, don't let them take one more step toward the castle!

@Boss 
Cowen: You shall go no further!

Cowen: The Empire... is undefeatable... Guhh!

Cowen: There's nothing more for me to say.

Reinhardt: This must be fate... Forgive me...

Reinhardt: I am... undone...

Reinhardt: ..May we meet again.

Saias: Lay down your weapons. You'll only get hurt.

@End 
August: We've made it across the river at last.
Leif: "A river stained red with blood." Now I understand what you meant by that. Somehow, I can feel that taint upon the river...
August: ...Blood that has been spilled can never be returned. Wise men accept this, and see to it that blood is only spilled for a worthy cause. Bah, enough of my ruminations. Come along, Prince Leif—we must hurry to Munster.
/***EOF***/
