@Intro 
Corrin: Azura... How is Sakura holding up?
Azura: Not well. She won't speak a word, and I'm told she refuses to eat.
Corrin: I'm not surprised. Poor thing. For someone so young to witness the massacre of all those soldiers... We're lucky we were able to take Sakura, Yukimura, and the retainers as hostages. If Iago and Hans weren't frightened of Xander, they would be dead right now. I've heard that Sakura is being kept separate from the rest. Is that so?
Azura: I'm afraid so. I believe her isolation has made all of this even harder on her. But Elise has been visiting her quite often, making sure she gets food and blankets.
Corrin: Elise has been doing all that? I'm a little surprised. Back in Izumo, she seemed rather hostile toward Sakura...
Azura: Perhaps she's learned to focus on what they have in common. After all, they are both princesses, and the youngest of all their siblings. ...You should know that Garon's men don't agree with our choice to keep them alive. We should keep close watch on them, or I shudder to think what might happen.
Corrin: You're right. I wish it weren't so... But those who still follow Father over Xander are not to be trusted.
Azura: Indeed. As it were... The Nohrian army is split in two as of now.
Corrin: What do you mean?
Azura: There are those whose allegiance lies with you, Xander, Leo and the others. And those who still swear fealty only to King Garon, Iago, and Hans. Conquering Hoshido is our only option, but our methods have drawn attention. If things continue like this, we might have a rebellion of sorts to contend with. It's convenient that King Garon is already here in Hoshido... But if something happens and we lose his trust, we will all be in grave danger. Until he sits on that throne, we should all proceed with extreme caution.
Corrin: You're right. We must be patient. The whole world depends on it. Once Father sits on that throne, everyone will finally know the truth. Only then can we—
Iago: Lord/Lady Corrin. Lady Azura.
Corrin: Iago?!
Iago: Am I interrupting something?
Corrin: No, not at all. Did you need something?
Iago: King Garon orders you and your troops to prepare for battle immediately. We will be arriving at the Great Wall of Suzanoh before long.
Corrin: The Great Wall of Suzanoh?
Iago: Oh, my apologies, young prince/princess. I take it you've never heard of the place before? It's the last hurdle that stands between us and the Hoshidan castle. Once we pass through, we will enter the capital city. My forces shall be leading the charge. You, on the other hand, have been tasked with conquering the enemy's core legion. That means defeating their leader, Prince Takumi.
Corrin: Takumi...is leading Hoshido's core legion?
Iago: Yes. We received word of it from our scouts not too long ago.
Corrin: I see.
Iago: We already have Princess Sakura as a hostage, so no need to keep him alive. I'm sure you would prefer to spare him, but I doubt our dear king would agree...
Corrin: *sigh* You are correct, Iago. I will deal with Takumi for the glory of Nohr. However, first things first. For now I must focus on the battle ahead. I will tell my troops to prepare for battle.
Iago: Understood.

Iago: Heh heh... Now, to joyously watch Corrin suffer! Poor prince/princess... What will you do?!

@Battle 
Takumi: At long last. I'm glad you could make it. Prince/Princess Corrin of Nohr. But know that so long as there is a single breath in my body, I will not let you pass. I mean that. You shall not enter our capital under any circumstances. Are you ready, dear Brother/Sister? Today is the day you die! Even if I must give my life to achieve it, I will not fail. I WILL kill you, Corrin! Prepare to die like the coward you are!

@Boss 
Hinata: I have been practicing day and night so I could be the one to stop you! I won't back down to the likes of you no-good scoundrels! Stand back and watch as I protect Lord Takumi and all of Hoshido!

Hinata: Lord Takumi... Stay...strong... I hope he knows...getting this blade from him...was my proudest moment...

Oboro: You filthy Nohrians! As long as I live, I won't let you lay a finger on my dear Lord Takumi!!

Oboro: Aww...but I wanted to protect you...my sweet Takumi... I should have told you...how I felt... Lord Takumi... I have always...loved... ...

Takumi: All allies of Nohr deserve nothing but the cold embrace of death!

Takumi: NO!! This can't be...how it ends...

%Corrin,Takumi 
Takumi: I have waited far too long for this moment, Brother/Sister. I have dreamt of nothing but ending you, and now the time has come! I shall cherish the sound of life leaving your body for all eternity. Do you remember what I told you in Cheve? Do you?!
Corrin: You said you would not rest until you killed me—made me pay for my sins.
Takumi: That's right. There's no turning back now... Not for me. This is all I have left. For better or for worse, this will be our last meeting. It ends here. I made up my mind to kill you a long time ago, my forgotten brother/sister. I WILL have revenge for Mother and all the Hoshidan lives you've ruined!!
Corrin: Takumi... Brother...

@End 
Corrin: Your battle is over, Takumi. The Nohrian army has seized control of the Great Wall of Suzanoh. All remaining soldiers will be taken prisoner. That includes you.
Takumi: Dammit! Coward! I hope you rot in a pit of eternal torment for this!!
Leo: My, what a rude fellow. You should be grateful we are allowing you to live. You may be our prisoner, but we will not treat you cruelly. If you behave, we may even let you see your sister, Princess Sakura.
Takumi: WHAT?! You've captured Sakura too? You monsters!!
Corrin: I know how you must be feeling, Takumi, but please calm yourself. We must bind and imprison you before Father arrives. Please, just put out your hands and—
Takumi: Don't touch me! Don't you dare lay your filthy Nohrian hands on me!!
Corrin: Takumi?
Takumi: I mean it! Don't come near me!! If it wasn't for you, none of these awful things would have happened to Hoshido! No one would have had to die! We could have been a family! Why did you go back to Nohr?! Why? TELL ME WHY!! Why didn't you choose us?! Your real family! Why?!
Corrin: Takumi! I...
Takumi: *sob* Don't you speak my name, traitor! *sob*
Corrin: ...
Takumi: It doesn't matter. Nothing matters—not anymore.
Corrin: Takumi... Why would you say that?

Takumi: The time is now... I can still save Hoshido even without the blade of salvation... You can't keep me prisoner... See? Do you see?! You shouldn't have left me a way...a way to escape...

Corrin: Takumi?! TAKUMI! NOOOO!!
Azura: Takumi! Please, no...
Corrin: Th-this can't be happening... I won't let it! TAKUMI!!

Azura: Corrin! What are you doing?!
Corrin: I'm going after him! He might still be alive!

Azura: No, it's too dangerous! That area isn't under Nohr's control yet! Corrin!!

Corrin: Takumi! Where are you?! He's not here... But how? He must have fallen somewhere nearby...
Azura: Wait, Corrin! You can't go that way! Hoshidan soldiers might still be afoot!

Corrin: Azura! What do I do? I can't find Takumi anywhere.
Azura: What?!
Corrin: We saw him fall... He fell down this very wall. But he's not down here!
Azura: How could that be? That's simply not possible. After falling that far, it would be a miracle for him to be alive, much less still mobile.
Corrin: Then where is he?
Azura: I...I don't know. Perhaps somebody removed his body. There must be an explanation.
Corrin: ...
Azura: I'm sorry, but we don't have time to figure this out right now. We need to get back to our troops. If we don't have the wall under our control when King Garon's forces arrive... There's no telling how many innocent lives will be lost.
Corrin: Dammit... You're right. OK. Let's go.
Azura: We must hurry, Corrin. There's no time to lose.
Corrin: Takumi... Where are you...?@Intro 
Elise: All right, Corrin. Let’s go in there together. I’ll help as much as possible. This is our father we’re talking about. He has to forgive you, right?
Corrin: Thanks, Elise. I hope you’re right.
Elise: All right. Deep breath, and… here we go. Father! We have something we need to talk you about!

Garon: Gah hah ha!
Corrin: Father?
Elise: It sound like he’s with someone… Maybe we should come back later.
Garon: Hrmph! Who’s there?
Elise: Oh! Sorry to bother you, Father…
Corrin: Yes, we apologize if this isn’t a good time.
Garon: What do you two want?
Elise: Father, we’re here to apologize. Right, Corrin?
Corrin: Yes, that’s right. I’m sorry for questioning you.
Garon: You may enter.

Garon: Corrin… You disobeyed a direct order from me. Ordinarily you would not still be alive.
Corrin: I understand…
Elise: No! Father, I can explain-
Garon: Silence! As you are my child, Corrin, I will grant you some leeway. I have something in mind for you. A mission. If you complete this task successfully, I will pardon your crime in full.
Corrin: Really?! What sort of mission?
Garon: There is an abandoned fortress perched on the Hoshidan border. I wish to know if the building there remains serviceable. You are to travel to the site and inspect the premises. No battle will be required. Do you understand? I won’t tolerate being disappointed twice…
Corrin: Yes, Father. It shall be done.

Camilla: Darling, are you sure you’re going to be OK out there? I don’t like this…
Corrin: Of course! Please don’t worry. It’s just an abandoned fort.
Leo: You’re acting rather casual about all this, Corrin. It isn’t like Father to be so forgiving…
Corrin: Huh? What do you mean, Leo?
Elise: That’s enough, Leo! Don’t be so worried all the time, sheesh. And don’t even try to scare Corrin before his/her first mission!

Leo: Hey! That’s not necessary.
Camilla: I suppose I’ll just have to come along. That way I know Corrin will be safe.
Iago: I’m afraid that’s not possible.

Camilla: Why ever not, Iago?
Iago: Lady Camilla, King Garon intends his expedition as a test of sorts. As his top advisor, I have been entrusted with coordinating this mission. He would like to know whether Prince/Princess Corrin is worthy… After all, he/she IS a part of the royal lineage. Therefore, your assistance would simply muddy the results.
Corrin: Understood. Camilla, I need to do this all by myself. Surely you understand.
Garon: Not all by yourself, Corrin.

Corrin: Father! I didn’t see you there.
Garon: Rest assured, I don’t intend to send you out there completely defenseless.

Hans: …Milord/Milady.
Garon: This is Hans. He is a veteran warrior and will ensure no trouble befalls you.
Corrin: Thank you, Father.
Xander: Hmm…

Xander: I’d be wary of that man if I were you, Corrin…
Corrin: Why do you say that?
Xander: He’s a criminal. A murderer and scoundrel. I arrested him myself, years ago. Father seems to think he’s rehabilitated, but I’m not so sure. That said, he is a formidable soldier.
Corrin: I see.

Corrin: Wow… Is this it? The Bottomless Canyon?
Gunter: Yes. It’s the natural boundary dividing Nohr and Hoshido.
Corrin: It can’t be really bottomless, can it?
Gunter: Let the eternal darkness below be your answer. Those who fall in never return… I truly despise this place. Something about the land around here just isn’t right. The sky here is always dark and foreboding, and lightning strikes all who fly across. This clearly a place us mortals were never meant to enter. Normally we’d go around… But the fort that King Garon wants surveyed is right over there.
Corrin: Oh, it’s not so bad. Or perhaps I’m just happy to be outside in the fresh air! Compared to the inside of that fortress, this is downright exiting.
Gunter: Ha! That certainly puts things in perspective, milord/milady. Come, let’s proceed.

Gunter: Blast! It looks like this fort isn’t as abandoned as we thought. Why the devil is this place crawling with Hoshidans?
Hoshidan: Hold on! Do not advance any farther, soliders of Nohr.
Omozu: Crossing that bridge is a violation of our border treaty. Turn back at once, or we’ll be forced to attack!
Felicia: What should we do?
Corrin: We’re not here to fight. I suppose we’ll have to turn back and report to Father.
Gunter: Wise decision, Lord/Lady Corrin.
Hans: Who asked you, old man?
Gunter: What?!

Hans: Gyaaah!
Hoshidan: AAAUGH!
Hans: Ah ha ha! Die, scumbags!
Omozu: You’ll pay for this!
Corrin: Hans, what are you doing?! We had no reason to engage these troops!
Hans: Pfft.
Corrin: We should have tried diplomacy first. We weren’t sent here to fight!
Hans: Speak for yourself, weakling.
Corrin: What’s that supposed to mean?
Omozu: Soldiers of Hoshido, hear me! Do not leave a single Nohrian alive!
Hoshidan: Prepare to attack!
Gunter: Argh! Looks like there’s no getting out of this now. Get ready to fight, Lord/Lady Corrin.

@Battle 
Gunter: Now then, Lord/Lady Corrin. There are two kinds of battle formations. You’ll need to learn both, and fast! You can take a defensive position by moving to the same space as an ally. Your ally will benefit from your support, but you won’t be able to attack. If you want to unleash the most potent attacks, stand in adjacent positions. From that alignment, allies may be able to attack simultaneously. I’d tell you more, but you’re about to receive some practical experience…

Gunter: I’m afraid the enemy’s position across that bridge may be impenetrable. We’ve got to look for another way across. Lord/Lady Corrin! See if you can find a Dragon Vein around here.

Omozu: Gods! Did you see what just happened to the cliff? Who are we dealing with here?

Felicia: Look! More troops are arriving from the south!
Gunter: More enemy reinforcements… Take caution, Lord/Lady Corrin.

@Boss 
Hans: Gyaaah! Die!

Hans: Bwahaha! Look like I’ve done enough damage for the time being. Time to lay low and see how this all plays out…

Omozu: Do you even realize what you’ve done here today? Hoshido won’t stand for unprovoked attacks like this. Revenge will be ours!

Omozu: Damn you! This isn’t over…

@End 
Corrin: This isn’t what I had in mind…but at least I’ve completed Father’s mission.
Saizo: You’re the leader of these troops? Pah. You’re nothing more than a boy/girl.
Corrin: Who are you?
Saizo: My name is Saizo. I’ve come to claim your life.
Corrin: Hey! Everyone! We’re still under attack!
Saizo: Destroy them!
???: I won’t allow it!
Saizo: What?! This must be their real commander…
Xander: What’s going on here, Corrin?
Corrin: Xander! How did you know were in trouble?
Leo: We’ve arrived just in time. Your luck never runs out, does it, Brother/Sister?
Camilla: Are you all right? I was so worried about you.
Elise: We’re all here for you, Corrin!
Corrin: Thank you, everyone! Um, but before we get too carried away… we ARE under attack.
Camilla: Who dares attack my beloved Corrin? I’ll have their heads on a platter!
Corrin: I’m not hurt, Camilla.
Camilla: But, darling…it’s the thought that counts!
Corrin: I never knew Camilla could be so…ruthless…
Elise: Heehee! That’s right, you’ve never seen her on the battlefield before.
Saizo: This is not going well…
Kagero: Saizo! What’s wrong? What’s our status?
Saizo: I misjudged the situation. We’re outnumbered. Kagero, do we have anyone else on the way?
Kagero: Affirmative. Lord Ryoma is right behind me.
Saizo: Ahh… Then I think this battle is as good as won.
Xander: It looks like more Hoshidan reinforcements are on the way.
Leo: Indeed… What should we do?
Xander: Well, Corrin is safe, and the fort’s condition has been evaluated. There’s no reason to engage Hoshido further at this point. Corrin, you take the lead with Gunter. We’ll follow close behind.
Corrin: Will do. Thank you, Xander.

Corrin: Gunter, have you seen Felicia/Jakob? She/He was here a second ago…
Gunter: I’m sure she’s/he's right behind us. Now hurry up. I can’t stand being on this bridge a moment longer.
Hans: Don’t worry-you won’t have to stand there much longer.
Corrin: Hans!
Gunter: What is the meaning of this?
Hans: Less talk. More death.
Corrin: Hans, no! Why are you doing this? Your own ally…
Hans: Aww, did I knock your babysitter into the ditch? Here- you can meet up with him at the bottom!
Corrin: You’ll pay for this!
Hans: What?! What kind of…freak…are you?

Hans: It can’t be..
Corrin: I want answers, Hans! Why are you doing this? Why did you provoke the Hoshians? And why did you kill Gunter? Answer me!
Hans: Just following orders. King Garon’s orders.
Corrin: What?! You lie!

Corrin: Come back here!

Corrin: Huh? Noooo!

Lilith: My kin, my gods, my blood… Dragons grant me strength! Great Moro, I beseech you!
Corrin: Lilith? Is that you? What…ARE you?
Lilith: Lord/Lady Corrin… I knew this day would come eventually. This may come as a shock, but I am not a human.
Corrin: Well, I can see that. Are you a dragon?
Lilith: Yes, this is my true form. You’ve seen it before. Do you remember? That strange bird you rescued in the barn…
Corrin: That… was you…?
Lilith: It was. Once I recovered, I was able to take human form. You were so kind to me that I decided to remain a human that I might serve you. But now I have used a power that goes beyond the capacity of a human body. I will not be able to return to that form. I don’t mind, though. The most important thing to me is that you’re safe…

Lilith: Eeek!
Corrin: Lilith! Be careful! Drop me if you must… I won’t have you sacrifice yourself for me!
Lilith: First Dragons, I call on you. Grant us access to the astral plane!
Corrin: What just happened?! Where…are we?
Lilith: This is a world parallel to the one in which you live, Lord/Lady Corrin. It is known as the astral plane.
Corrin: How were you able to get us here?
Lilith: The First Dragons have granted us the power to inhabit this dimension. Under their protection, we are safe here. Oh! Allow me to prepare a place for you to rest…
Corrin: Did… did you just use a Dragon Vein?
Lilith: Yes. The power of the First Dragons flows freely in this realm. You should know that space and time operate differently here as well…
Corrin: I have so much to learn… Is there anyone else here?
Lilith: No, we are alone. There’s no one left here…
Corrin: I’m sorry, I didn’t mean to invoke any bad memories.
Lilith: It’s OK, Corrin. I’m not lonely as long as I have you in my life. Now…you should get some rest.

Lilith: How are you feeling, Corrin? I know this is a lot to take in.
Corrin: Yes, it is. But I feel much better now. My wounds seem to have healed already. And my mind is racing! I have so many new questions about this world…
Lilith: All in good time. For now, some business remains in the other world.
Corrin: Yes, you’re right. I can’t relax until I know everyone made it safely home.
Lilith: Of course. There is just one thing you should know before you go back. When I open the portal, you will return to the same location you came from. That means you’ll arrive right on the Hoshidan border. There may be soldiers lying in wait for you…
Corrin: I understand. I’ll be ready for them.
Lilith: Very well. Then I will open the gate.

Corrin: Ah, I’m back. But… where is everyone?
???: You’re mine, Nohrian!
Corrin: Hmm?!@Intro 
Garon: I see you made it here safely, Corrin.
Corrin: Yes, Father. Long have I wished to see you and visit Castle Krakenburg again. I feel like I’m dreaming…
Garon: It is only thanks to your diligence that you are here. I am told you are now a warrior almost on par with Xander. You finally possess the strength to be an instrument of Nohr’s power in the world.
Elise: But, Father, will he/she be all right outside of the fortress?
Camilla: I worry about that as well. Isn’t it dangerous for Corrin to live outside the fortress’s magical barrier?
Corrin: I appreciate your concern, but I earned my way here and I’m ready to fight.
Garon: Corrin, as you know, Nohr is at war with the eastern kingdom of Hoshido.
Corrin: Yes, Father. I have heard as much.
Garon: We of the royal family are descendants of the ancient gods, the First Dragons. As inheritors of that divine strength, we conquer those who oppose us with ease. One who learns to wield that power can destroy an entire army of common troops. Xander, Camilla, and Leo have already shown that they possess this power. I expect no less from you.
Corrin: I am aware of your expectations, Father. And I have trained every day to become more like my siblings.
Garon: Hmm…you show promise. But you will need a suitable weapon in order to serve Nohr.
Corrin: Wow…
Garon: This is Ganglari, a sword infused with magic from another world. With this sword at your side, you will crush the Hoshidan army with ease.
Corrin: Thank you for this generous gift, Father.
Xander: Hmm… Generous indeed.
Garon: Now, let us see you put that sword to its proper use… Bring out the prisoners!
Nohrian: Yes, sire!
Corrin: Prisoners?
Garon: These are prisoners from our most recent skirmish with Hoshido. I want to see your power with my own eyes. Use that sword to strike them down.

Gunter: I shall join you, milord/milady. My lance arm is perhaps rusty but still serviceable. Felicia/Jakob, will you join us well?
Felicia: Of course! I’m as much a bodyguard as a domestic, after all. To be honest, I was never that great at the domestic stuff anyway.
Jakob: Naturally. I couldn't allow someone of your advanced years to bear the burden alone. Lady Corrin, there is no need for you to soil your hands with this filth. Please relax and leave the fighting to us. Afterward, I will prepare you some tea.
Rinkah: I am Rinkah! Daughter of the Flame Tribe’s honorable chieftain. What is your name, Nohrian prince/princess?
Corrin: I’m Corrin.
Kaze: Corrin… Can it be?
Corrin: Huh? Have you heard of me?
Kaze: … I am Kaze, a ninja of Hoshido. Show me what you can do.
Garon: Kill them all.

@Battle 
#avatar-M
Corrin: Is that…
Felicia: Is something wrong, milord?
Corrin: I feel…something emanating from the ground. Could it be…
Felicia: Oh! Th-that’s amazing! You blew away all the debris!
Garon: Heh…Well done.
Gunter: Excellent plan, milord─now we can hide in there and ambush our foes.

#avatar-F
Corrin: Is that…
Jakob: Hm? Is something the matter, milady?
Corrin: I feel…something emanating from the ground. Could it be…
Jakob: Extraordinary! No debris field can stand up to your mighty lineage!
Garon: Heh... Well done.
Gunter: Excellent plan, milady─now we can hide in there and ambush our foes.

@Battle 
Gunter: Remain focused, milord/milady. This is no mock battle-a mistake here could cost you your life.

Felicia: You should know I’m trained to use daggers-up close or thrown from afar. I can even hit enemies hiding behind walls, which might come in handy!

Jakob: Milady, I'm well trained in the dagger─effective both up close and at range. I can even attack foes hiding behind walls, which may prove useful.

Gunter: Remember your training. Each weapon has strengths and weaknesses. You would do well to consider them before you attack.
Jakob: I’m sure you know this, milord/milady, but it’s useful to stay close to your allies. If you fight side by side, you can help each other in battle/combat.

Felicia: Maids can also use staves to heal wounds. If you get hurt, let me know right away!

Jakob: Butlers can also use staves to heal wounds. Please inform me immediately should you become injured.

@Recruit-Battle 
Kaze: A ninja’s Shuriken may not cut deep, but it can sap you of your strength. Your death need not come all at once!

Kaze: I regret…nothing...

Rinkah: Behold the might of the Flame Tribe!

Rinkah: Nohrian scum…

@End 
Kaze: So this is how it ends…
Corrin: Phew! They’re really tough, aren’t they? I hope all Hoshidans aren’t this strong.
Garon: Don’t just stand there, idiot boy/girl. Finish them!
Corrin: But. Father…they’re beaten. You want me to execute helpless prisoners?
Garon: You dare question me?! I order you to kill them!
Corrin: No! It’s wrong!
Garon: I won’t argue the point any further.

Corrin: Gods!

Kaze: Hm?
Elise: Corrin! What are you-
Xander: Unbelievable…
Garon: You would defy me directly, Corrin?!
Xander: Father, please forgive him/her! He/She doesn’t yet understand our situation…
Garon: Fine. Xander, you kill them. And if anyone gets in your way, kill them too.
Xander: Ngh.
Garon: DO IT! KILL THEM ALL!
Xander: …

Xander: Stand down, Corrin. If you don’t, I will be forced to-
Corrin: No, Xander. I won’t let you do this!

Xander: Why do you refuse, Corrin? You know the Hoshidans are our sworn enemies.
Corrin: I know, but…this is different. These people can’t fight anymore. Why not show mercy?
Camilla: Please, Corrin, don’t fight him… My dear, sweet Corrin…
Elise: No no no! Leo, what should we do?
Leo: *sigh* Why does this fall to me?

Leo: Father, I have dispatched our enemies on behalf of my softhearted brother/sister.
Garon: Hmph.
Leo: I only ask that you would be merciful in your punishment of him/her…
Garon: Enough! I will consider the matter later.

Corrin: Leo! How could you?! They were beaten! There was no reason to execute them!
Leo: Agreed. Now hush.
Corrin: Leo, did you-

Xander: Enough, both of you. The battle is over.
Corrin: …
Xander: Mark my words, Corrin… One day, an act of kindness may be the death of you.
Corrin: Perhaps, but if I’m kind. I will die without regrets.
Xander: …Well said. Guard! I would examine the prisoners’ belongings. Bring their remains to my quarters.
Nohrian: Yes, Your Highness!
Corrin: Leo, your spell…
Leo: Was only enough to weaken them, yes. I should have followed Father’s orders. But Camilla and Elise always make such a fuss when I do anything to upset you.
Corrin: Thank you, Leo. I’m sorry for teasing you about your collar.
Leo: *sigh* You can repay me by not mentioning it again.
Elise: That was great, Brother!
Camilla: It was, but I doubt this will be the last we hear of this. Father never forgets a slight.

Xander: Listen well. It is only my brother’s/sister's kind heart that has bought your freedom. Disappear now, lest you be spotted by our king.
Kaze: …

Rinkah: Tch. I am not a hostage to be freed. You said your name is Corrin? When next we meet, I will make you pay for this humiliation!
Corrin: I was hoping the next time we met, it could be as friends.
Rinkah: Softhearted fool! I am a Hoshidan warrior. You do not understand what you suggest.
Corrin: I understand that right now Hoshido and Nohr are at war. But I’m trying to plan ahead for the day the war is over and we can live in peace.
Rinkah: I’ve heard rumors of a sheltered Nohrian prince/princess who knows nothing of the world. I see those rumors are true. If we do meet again, the world will have no doubt taught you the error your ways.@Intro 
Corrin: Wow. Leo wasn't kidding. This is the only way to travel. Did everyone make it through?
Ryoma: Yes, we're all here. I'm almost certain Nohrian forces haven't laid claim to this area yet. We should be safe, for the time being.
Takumi: Heh, they're probably still looking for us in the forest.
Ryoma: Agreed. This could work out perfectly if we time everything just right.
Corrin: Very well. Let's get to it. Er... Any idea how to actually find this Rainbow Sage person?
Ryoma: I'm afraid not. I suppose the first thing we should do is find someone to interrogate...
Corrin: Or...we could try just talking to people. Like that older guy, over there. He looks like he's been here awhile. Excuse me, sir. Do you have a moment?
Old Man: Hmm? Are you lost? Is there a troupe in town? Your costumes are splendid—just splendid!
Corrin: Um, actually, we're just...travelers. We're looking for...an old friend. Some people call him the Rainbow Sage. Have you heard of him?
Old Man: The Rainbow Sage is your friend? Hoo hoo hoo! So you're a traveling comedy team—is that it?
Corrin: What do you mean? Why do you find that funny? I suppose I misspoke earlier. We haven't met the Rainbow Sage yet, but we were hoping to find him. Do you have any idea how we might track him down?
Old Man: Let me spare you a great deal of pain... Give up now. Almost nobody has visited the Rainbow Sage and lived.
Ryoma: I assure you that we are up to the task. There is a man from Nohr, a prince named Xander with golden hair... Is he one of those few who survived?
Old Man: Oh, yes! I remember him. You ARE quite knowledgeable. I believe he was the fourth person to meet the Rainbow Sage and survive. The first was Sumeragi, the former king of Hoshido! A young King Garon also made the pilgrimage. I heard the third individual was an unknown knight no one had ever heard of before. But yes, Xander was the fourth!
Corrin: Unbelievable... We're following in the steps of King Sumeragi and King Garon... Stranger, thank you for the warning, but we are undeterred. Can you tell us how to find the Rainbow Sage?
Old Man: Well, if you insist... See that mountain over there? That's Mount Sagesse. It's a formidable peak...and at its summit you will find the Sevenfold Sanctuary.
Corrin: I see. And that's where we can find the Rainbow Sage?
Old Man: If the legend is to be believed, yes. He supposedly resides on the top floor. But let me just warn you one more time... Most people never even make it to the summit alive.
Corrin: I...I can't imagine what kinds of challenges await in that place...
Old Man: Hoo hoo! I've heard every kind of rumor you can imagine. Rooms full of poisonous snakes...trapdoors everywhere... I don't believe a word of it! But the only way to know for sure is to reach the top.
Corrin: Well, thank you, sir. We truly appreciate all the information you've given us.
Old Man: It's my pleasure. Good luck to you. Oh, and try not to die. Hoo hoo hoo!
Corrin: You hear him, everyone! I heartily second that advice. Now, let's make our way to that mountain!

Corrin: *huff* *huff* Is everyone all right? So far the climb is strenuous...but not overly dangerous.
Ryoma: You're right. So far, so good. Everyone has managed to keep pace. However, I believe we're approaching that building that that old man warned us about.
Corrin: Yes. The Sevenfold Sanctuary. How do you feel, Ryoma? Are we ready for this? Perhaps I should go ahead to scout—
Ryoma: Nonsense! We're sticking with you, no matter what awaits in there.
Corrin: Thank you, Ryoma. All right, everyone...let's go!

@Boss 
Illusion: Warriors! You have done well to make it this far. But make no mistake—the challenge is far from over. Now...show me what you can do!

@End 
Corrin: All right, everyone, this is it. The moment of truth. Beyond this door, we'll finally meet the legendary Rainbow Sage...
Ryoma: Be careful, Corrin. Don't let your guard down just yet.
Corrin: You're right. Let's just take this slowly...

Corrin: On one...two... THREE!

Old Man: Oh! Hello!
Corrin: You?! What are we doing back here again?
Old Man: Hoo hoo! This is where I live. Sorry to disappoint you.
Corrin: It can't be. You're the Rainbow Sage? Why didn't you say so when we first met you?
Rainbow Sage: Well, that wouldn't have been any fun, would it? The legend would take a bit of a hit if you could just meet me anywhere.
Corrin: I...I suppose you're right. Well, now that we've made it, will you grant us the same power you granted the others?
Rainbow Sage: No.
Corrin: What do you mean, no? We've done everything you asked! Or is there some other challenge we have yet to face?
Rainbow Sage: No, there is nothing else. You've done it...you can hold your heads up high! Don't you see? You've all fought so hard just to get here... The journey itself is what has strengthened you. Your minds and your bodies. If I were to ask you to climb another 5,000 vertical feet, I have no doubt you'd do it. THAT is the power that Sumeragi, Garon, Xander...and the other...have tapped into.
Corrin: Yes. I see what you mean.
Rainbow Sage: Hoo, hoo! You feel it, don't you? Like you could do anything you set your mind to?
Corrin: Yes. Yes, I do. Thank you, Rainbow Sage.
Rainbow Sage: Don't thank me yet! There's one more thing I can do for you, Corrin.
Corrin: Wait, how did you know my name?
Rainbow Sage: Hoo hoo! I know ALL about you. More than you know about yourself! But that's neither here nor there. Now, show me the blessed Yato, if you will.
Corrin: Very well. Does this have to do with the Seal of Flames?
Rainbow Sage: Ah...you HAVE been paying attention. Good. Now, I must speak with the one who wields the Fujin Yumi.
Takumi: Huh? What do you want from me?
Rainbow Sage: Both of you, lift your weapons, if you would. Now, look at each other with calm minds and open hearts. This is the beginning. The Seal of Flames must be unlocked to initiate peace...

Rainbow Sage: I, who forged the sacred blade... I, who committed the great sin... I, who wove the divine colors... I call on you now, Seal of Flames!

Corrin: Something's happening to the Yato... It's changing!
Rainbow Sage: The divine blade Yato is no more. You are now the proud owner of the Noble Yato, its worthy successor.
Corrin: I...I can feel a kind of power coursing through it...
Rainbow Sage: That is nothing compared to what you will feel later. But that's all I can tell you for now. Now, if my sources are accurate, there is a very confused army looking for you. I believe NOW would be an opportune time to return to Nohr.
Corrin: You're right. I had almost forgotten about that...
Rainbow Sage: Understandable, given all you've been through. However, it would behoove you to gather your wits quickly and move on. I am certain greater challenges lie ahead.

Corrin: Thank you, Rainbow Sage. We are honored to have met you.
Rainbow Sage: Well, it's been a pleasure to meet you as well. I'm just pleased as punch that you didn't die on the way here!
Corrin: I vow to return here and visit you again once the war is over.
Rainbow Sage: Oh?
Corrin: What? Should...should I not do that?
Rainbow Sage: Oh! Pardon me. Now you would be welcome to visit me anytime. Farewell, Corrin.
Corrin: Farewell, Rainbow Sage. Thank you.

Rainbow Sage: Ah...I hope he/she can live up to the destiny that's been laid before him/her... I'll be long dead before I find out, I suppose... But still...it would be nice for him/her. Hoo hoo!@Intro 
Corrin: This place is so beautiful...so calming.
Azura: Isn't it? This is Izumo. It is known as the kingdom of the gods. Even as outside kingdoms quarrel, it remains neutral and peaceful.
Corrin: So this is the beauty that peace allows for... How inspiring. If this place is neutral, perhaps we should rest here for a while. Everyone must be exhausted after all our many travels and battles.
Azura: Agreed. We might be able to gather some useful information here too. The area surrounding the Hoshidan capital is heavily guarded. As of now, we have no good options for getting there safely. Perhaps someone here know something that could help. Then it's settled. Let's go!

Izana: Hello there! Greetings and salutations! You've traveled far, haven't you? You have! Welcome to my not-so-humble abode, Nohrian friends!
Corrin: Thank you very much for the...erm, warm welcome.
Izana: My castle here is a teeny tiny bitty baby, but please make yourselves at home.
Corrin: We, um, will do that. But...may I ask who I have the pleasure of addressing right now?
Izana: Oh! OH! Silly me! Yes, allow me to introduce myself. I am Archduke Izana, first heir to the divine bloodline, descendant of the gods...keeper of prophecies, and winner of best hair six times running. Not to brag. It's so nice to meet you!
Corrin: Y-you're an archduke?! Really? ...Really, though?
Leo: Impossible. He's so disgustingly casual...
Camilla: I'm a little surprised he's able to lead a whole kingdom like that...
Xander: It's downright unsettling...
Elise: Hi, Izana!! It's great to meet you too! Let's be best friends, heehee!
Izana: Ooh! Aren't you the cutest little girl this side of the Bottomless Canyon! You are my new favorite, Lady Elise!
Elise: Hm? Um, did I already introduce myself? I know I'm forgetful, but...
Izana: Ah ha ha... Ehem. Right. Don't be a goose, milady. You are all part of the Nohrian royal family. I know all of your names! It's only fitting for an archduke such as myself.
Elise: Oh, that makes total sense!
Azura: Hmm...
Izana: I must say, you royals have the most exquisite of exquisite timing. Tonight I am hosting a banquet fit for lovely little royal types like you! I already have the most TO DIE FOR guest list. You'll die! You simply MUST attend. You must! You will, yes? Will you? Won't you?
Corrin: Guest? Who might they be?
Izana: Yes! It's hard to believe, but you're not the only royals I've collected today. I also have the honor of hosting the Hoshidan royal family!
Corrin: What?!
Sakura: Corrin?! Is that r-really you?
Hinoka: Corrin! What are you doing here?!
Takumi: ...
Ryoma: Corrin... How unexpected.
Corrin: H-hello...
Xander: Stay back, Corrin! Those people are dangerous. They will stop at nothing to steal you away from us.
Ryoma: Ha. Nohrian logic at its finest. Don't forget who stole our brother/sister first.
Xander: Speak ill of Nohrians again, and so help me...
Ryoma: Why are you angry? It's not an insult if it's true.
Xander: You really desire to feel my blade at your throat don't you?
Ryoma: Just try it! I dare you!
Izana: Whoa! No, no, no! Stop this at once! You don't want to be held responsible for breaking Izumo's neutrality pact, right? Put those awful swords away THIS INSTANT.
Xander: What pact?
Izana: Our lovely little Izumo has a strict pact that prohibits fighting of any kind. Even princes like you would be severely punished if you broke said pact. So let's all just put those nasty weapons away and enjoy supper! That's an order.
Xander: ...Fine. As a fellow ruler, I will respect your laws.
Ryoma: I may stay my blade, but don't expect me to let my guard down. I don't need a weapon to kill you, should the need arise.
Xander: You wish to engage me in hand-to-hand combat? That can be arranged...
Izana: Heh heh...ehem. Now, now, silly princes. Enough of this combat talk. So boring! You may be at war, but as long as you're under my roof, you'll play by my rules. They're such fun rules too! We'll start by locking away those weapons of yours. Now, our bountiful banquet is still cooking, so enjoy our amenities in the meantime.
Xander: ...
Ryoma: Hmph.

Xander: Well, that was unexpected. How are you holding up?
Corrin: OK, I guess. I'm so sorry about all this, Xander.
Xander: Not everything in the world is your fault, little prince/princess. We're here because you're a good leader who wished to give us a safe place to rest. None among us would even consider blaming you for what's happening.
Corrin: Thank you, Brother...
Ryoma: Hello, Corrin.
Corrin: Ryoma?!

Xander: What do you want, Hoshidan?

Ryoma: Please, calm yourselves. I mean no harm to either of you. I simply wish to speak with my brother/sister.
Xander: So that you can steal him/her away to Hoshido the first chance you get? I won't allow it.
Ryoma: Watch that temper of yours, Nohrian prince. I admit I acted out of line earlier, but I will not stoop to violating Izumo's peace pact. As high prince of Hoshido. I don't have the luxury of making such a political misstep.
Xander: ...As crown prince of Nohr, I am bound by the same political constraints. If you and yours can behave amicably then so can we.
Corrin: Hmm...
Xander: Is something on your mind, Corrin?
Corrin: It's just...despite your differences, the two of you are quite similar in some ways.
Xander: Corrin! There's no need to insult me like that. I could not possibly be anything like this sorry excuse for a prince.
Ryoma: For once, I agree with Prince Xander. To start, I'm far more attractive.
Xander: Beg pardon?!
Corrin: Whoa! Easy there! Don't fight now—we just started getting along! And I wasn't talking about your looks. Maybe it's because you're both heir to your respective thrones... But the dignified way you carry yourselves...how you care so deeply for your kingdom... I just think deep down, you two are more alike than you may think.
Xander: ...
Ryoma: ...
Nohrian: There he is! The high prince of Hoshido! Get him!!

Corrin: Nohrian soldiers? What is the meaning of this?!
Xander: How dare you act against our orders!
Izana: Ignore those party poopers, soldiers. Capture Prince Ryoma! Do it now!!
Ryoma: What the... Unhand me!

Xander: As crown prince of Nohr, I demand you to stop this at once! What are you playing at, Izana? I thought all violence was forbidden here.
Izana: Heh heh, that's the best part. I...am not Izana.
Xander: What?!

Zola: Eeheehee! It's been a long time, Lord Xander.
Xander: Zola!
Zola: Phew! It feels SO GOOD to finally be myself again! It was hard pretending to be that twit of an archduke with the Hoshidan royals around.
Xander: Where is the real Archduke Izana? What have you done with him?!
Zola: Eeheehee, I'm afraid he and his ridiculous hair have been locked away a long while. He'll no doubt enjoy the company of Prince Ryoma in that ungodly cell. Oh! Let's not forget the other Hoshidan royals. Sweet death awaits all of them! I wonder if the littlest one will c-c-cry when her time comes...
Xander: You monster! Do you really mean to kill them? Even the youngest ones?!
Zola: But of course! King Garon will be so proud when I tell him of my triumph! When I heard the Hoshidan royals were attending a royal banquet in Izumo... I used my incomparable illusive magic to take the archduke's place. Genius, no? Then it was only a matter of time until the Hoshidans crawled into my web, hyo-ho.
Xander: That's despicable, even for you.
Zola: No more flattery, please! I'll blush! Now we can capture Hoshido once and for all. I bet the king will grant me a new title! If you'll excuse me, I have some very important death sentencing to do.

Xander: Zola, halt! ZOLA!!
Corrin: Xander... Wh-what are we going to do?
Xander: Don't worry, Corrin. I won't allow this treachery to go unpunished. Hoshido may be our enemy, but to murder its royals while they are unarmed... I won't have us win the war this way. We will win with honor or die trying. Come, Brother/Sister. Let us go set free our sworn enemy.
Corrin: I'm with you all the way, Xander. You really are my hero. I hope you know. ...Heh heh.
Xander: Was that a guffaw I heard? Out with it, little prince/princess. What's so funny?
Corrin: Heh, sorry... It's just that you and Ryoma really are so much alike. If you weren't on opposite sides of a war, I think you could have been great friends.
Xander: Yeesh... Do me a favor and keep that nonsense in your head where it belongs. Now, to the task at hand. Gather our troops and prepare for battle. Zola isn't one to postpone violence. We haven't much time.
Corrin: I'm on it!

@Boss 
Zola: Why are you fighting this?! I am not you're enemy, those Hoshidans are! I act only for the glory of Nohr! Why is this happening? WHY?!

@End 
Corrin: This place is so beautiful...so calming.
Azura: Isn't it? This is Izumo. It is known as the kingdom of the gods. Even as outside kingdoms quarrel, it remains neutral and peaceful.
Corrin: So this is the beauty that peace allows for... How inspiring. If this place is neutral, perhaps we should rest here for a while. Everyone must be exhausted after all our many travels and battles.
Azura: Agreed. We might be able to gather some useful information here too. The area surrounding the Hoshidan capital is heavily guarded. As of now, we have no good options for getting there safely. Perhaps someone here know something that could help. Then it's settled. Let's go!

Izana: Hello there! Greetings and salutations! You've traveled far, haven't you? You have! Welcome to my not-so-humble abode, Nohrian friends!
Corrin: Thank you very much for the...erm, warm welcome.
Izana: My castle here is a teeny tiny bitty baby, but please make yourselves at home.
Corrin: We, um, will do that. But...may I ask who I have the pleasure of addressing right now?
Izana: Oh! OH! Silly me! Yes, allow me to introduce myself. I am Archduke Izana, first heir to the divine bloodline, descendant of the gods...keeper of prophecies, and winner of best hair six times running. Not to brag. It's so nice to meet you!
Corrin: Y-you're an archduke?! Really? ...Really, though?
Leo: Impossible. He's so disgustingly casual...
Camilla: I'm a little surprised he's able to lead a whole kingdom like that...
Xander: It's downright unsettling...
Elise: Hi, Izana!! It's great to meet you too! Let's be best friends, heehee!
Izana: Ooh! Aren't you the cutest little girl this side of the Bottomless Canyon! You are my new favorite, Lady Elise!
Elise: Hm? Um, did I already introduce myself? I know I'm forgetful, but...
Izana: Ah ha ha... Ehem. Right. Don't be a goose, milady. You are all part of the Nohrian royal family. I know all of your names! It's only fitting for an archduke such as myself.
Elise: Oh, that makes total sense!
Azura: Hmm...
Izana: I must say, you royals have the most exquisite of exquisite timing. Tonight I am hosting a banquet fit for lovely little royal types like you! I already have the most TO DIE FOR guest list. You'll die! You simply MUST attend. You must! You will, yes? Will you? Won't you?
Corrin: Guest? Who might they be?
Izana: Yes! It's hard to believe, but you're not the only royals I've collected today. I also have the honor of hosting the Hoshidan royal family!
Corrin: What?!
Sakura: Corrin?! Is that r-really you?
Hinoka: Corrin! What are you doing here?!
Takumi: ...
Ryoma: Corrin... How unexpected.
Corrin: H-hello...
Xander: Stay back, Corrin! Those people are dangerous. They will stop at nothing to steal you away from us.
Ryoma: Ha. Nohrian logic at its finest. Don't forget who stole our brother/sister first.
Xander: Speak ill of Nohrians again, and so help me...
Ryoma: Why are you angry? It's not an insult if it's true.
Xander: You really desire to feel my blade at your throat don't you?
Ryoma: Just try it! I dare you!
Izana: Whoa! No, no, no! Stop this at once! You don't want to be held responsible for breaking Izumo's neutrality pact, right? Put those awful swords away THIS INSTANT.
Xander: What pact?
Izana: Our lovely little Izumo has a strict pact that prohibits fighting of any kind. Even princes like you would be severely punished if you broke said pact. So let's all just put those nasty weapons away and enjoy supper! That's an order.
Xander: ...Fine. As a fellow ruler, I will respect your laws.
Ryoma: I may stay my blade, but don't expect me to let my guard down. I don't need a weapon to kill you, should the need arise.
Xander: You wish to engage me in hand-to-hand combat? That can be arranged...
Izana: Heh heh...ehem. Now, now, silly princes. Enough of this combat talk. So boring! You may be at war, but as long as you're under my roof, you'll play by my rules. They're such fun rules too! We'll start by locking away those weapons of yours. Now, our bountiful banquet is still cooking, so enjoy our amenities in the meantime.
Xander: ...
Ryoma: Hmph.

Xander: Well, that was unexpected. How are you holding up?
Corrin: OK, I guess. I'm so sorry about all this, Xander.
Xander: Not everything in the world is your fault, little prince/princess. We're here because you're a good leader who wished to give us a safe place to rest. None among us would even consider blaming you for what's happening.
Corrin: Thank you, Brother...
Ryoma: Hello, Corrin.
Corrin: Ryoma?!

Xander: What do you want, Hoshidan?

Ryoma: Please, calm yourselves. I mean no harm to either of you. I simply wish to speak with my brother/sister.
Xander: So that you can steal him/her away to Hoshido the first chance you get? I won't allow it.
Ryoma: Watch that temper of yours, Nohrian prince. I admit I acted out of line earlier, but I will not stoop to violating Izumo's peace pact. As high prince of Hoshido. I don't have the luxury of making such a political misstep.
Xander: ...As crown prince of Nohr, I am bound by the same political constraints. If you and yours can behave amicably then so can we.
Corrin: Hmm...
Xander: Is something on your mind, Corrin?
Corrin: It's just...despite your differences, the two of you are quite similar in some ways.
Xander: Corrin! There's no need to insult me like that. I could not possibly be anything like this sorry excuse for a prince.
Ryoma: For once, I agree with Prince Xander. To start, I'm far more attractive.
Xander: Beg pardon?!
Corrin: Whoa! Easy there! Don't fight now—we just started getting along! And I wasn't talking about your looks. Maybe it's because you're both heir to your respective thrones... But the dignified way you carry yourselves...how you care so deeply for your kingdom... I just think deep down, you two are more alike than you may think.
Xander: ...
Ryoma: ...
Nohrian: There he is! The high prince of Hoshido! Get him!!

Corrin: Nohrian soldiers? What is the meaning of this?!
Xander: How dare you act against our orders!
Izana: Ignore those party poopers, soldiers. Capture Prince Ryoma! Do it now!!
Ryoma: What the... Unhand me!

Xander: As crown prince of Nohr, I demand you to stop this at once! What are you playing at, Izana? I thought all violence was forbidden here.
Izana: Heh heh, that's the best part. I...am not Izana.
Xander: What?!

Zola: Eeheehee! It's been a long time, Lord Xander.
Xander: Zola!
Zola: Phew! It feels SO GOOD to finally be myself again! It was hard pretending to be that twit of an archduke with the Hoshidan royals around.
Xander: Where is the real Archduke Izana? What have you done with him?!
Zola: Eeheehee, I'm afraid he and his ridiculous hair have been locked away a long while. He'll no doubt enjoy the company of Prince Ryoma in that ungodly cell. Oh! Let's not forget the other Hoshidan royals. Sweet death awaits all of them! I wonder if the littlest one will c-c-cry when her time comes...
Xander: You monster! Do you really mean to kill them? Even the youngest ones?!
Zola: But of course! King Garon will be so proud when I tell him of my triumph! When I heard the Hoshidan royals were attending a royal banquet in Izumo... I used my incomparable illusive magic to take the archduke's place. Genius, no? Then it was only a matter of time until the Hoshidans crawled into my web, hyo-ho.
Xander: That's despicable, even for you.
Zola: No more flattery, please! I'll blush! Now we can capture Hoshido once and for all. I bet the king will grant me a new title! If you'll excuse me, I have some very important death sentencing to do.

Xander: Zola, halt! ZOLA!!
Corrin: Xander... Wh-what are we going to do?
Xander: Don't worry, Corrin. I won't allow this treachery to go unpunished. Hoshido may be our enemy, but to murder its royals while they are unarmed... I won't have us win the war this way. We will win with honor or die trying. Come, Brother/Sister. Let us go set free our sworn enemy.
Corrin: I'm with you all the way, Xander. You really are my hero. I hope you know. ...Heh heh.
Xander: Was that a guffaw I heard? Out with it, little prince/princess. What's so funny?
Corrin: Heh, sorry... It's just that you and Ryoma really are so much alike. If you weren't on opposite sides of a war, I think you could have been great friends.
Xander: Yeesh... Do me a favor and keep that nonsense in your head where it belongs. Now, to the task at hand. Gather our troops and prepare for battle. Zola isn't one to postpone violence. We haven't much time.
Corrin: I'm on it!@Intro 
Garon: So Iago has failed yet again. Pitiful. I'll have to dispose of him one of these days... No matter. Plan B will spring into action anytime now. Oh...and to see the look on Corrin's face when it does... Bwahahaha!

Elise: No, Father... How could you?

Xander: Hello, Elise. Might I ask what you're doing out here?
Elise: Gah! Xander, don't spook me like that.
Xander: Be honest—were you spying on Father?
Elise: ... Yes.
Xander: Elise. You should know better. Father would not be pleased if he found out someone was listening in on him. Even you would likely face some unpleasant consequences.
Elise: I know. It's just... *sob*
Xander: Elise! What's wrong?
Elise: I don't know what to do! Corrin is gone... Leo is gone... Camilla is so depressed that she hardly even leaves her quarters. What's happened to our family, Xander? How can we go back to the way things were?
Xander: Elise... Don't worry, Sister. When this war is over, everything will go back to normal.
Elise: *sniffle* R-really? But how can you be so sure?
Xander: Because I believe. That's why I can keep fighting in the face of heartache. We must all believe that what we're doing is for the greater good... We must trust in our cause and fight for it with all we have! That's all we can do, at least for now.

Ryoma: Well, we had to take the long way around, but we're finally here. This ferry will take us right to your childhood home, Corrin.
Corrin: I know. I'm having a hard time believing this is really happening.
Takumi: Yeah, well, don't get too nostalgic or anything. As soon as we step off this boat, there won't be any place to hide.
Corrin: You're right. We should begin preparing for battle now. There won't be any time to rest once we reach the dock.
Ryoma: Before we get to that, I need to brief you on something, Corrin.
Corrin: Yes?
Ryoma: Just before we boarded this vessel, I received a message from Yukimura.
Corrin: Really? How is that possible?!
Ryoma: He sent a young pegasus rider from the Bottomless Canyon to find us. Both rider and steed appeared exhausted. Sakura is tending to them now.
Corrin: I see. So, what was the message?
Ryoma: It's bad news, I'm afraid. Yukimura reports that the royal troops are still holding the line in Hoshido. But it appears that soldiers from Mokushu have joined Nohr in attacking us. It sounds like it's only a matter of time until our defenses are breached.
Corrin: No!
Ryoma: It gets worse. That message is at least several weeks old. I wouldn't be surprised to find that the situation has deteriorated even further.
Corrin: It sounds like we don't have much time left. We need to defeat Garon and end this war before our castle falls. How long until we reach our destination?
Ryoma: Another day—maybe two. According to the captain, we need to go far upstream to reach a docking point.
Takumi: But...according to the map that the Rainbow Sage gave us...our destination is directly across the river from us. Why can't we go straight there?
Ryoma: Hmm. I'm not sure. The captain didn't indicate that we had any options.
Takumi: Look. Right there. A port marked Demon's Fall on the map.
Ryoma: Demon's Fall? Show me!
Corrin: He's right. It's handwritten very faintly, right there. Have you heard of the place, Ryoma?
Ryoma: Yes, but I believed it to be a legend. They say it's a waterfall made of fire, which seemed too fantastical to be true.
Corrin: Perhaps it's worth checking out. It could save us a few precious days.
Takumi: Well, we better decide quickly. We're coming up on a fork in the river!
Ryoma: I believe it's worth a shot. What do you say, Corrin?
Corrin: I agree. We must act quickly...or else there may no longer BE a Hoshido to save. I think we're ready to take on anything we might find at Demon's Fall. Who's with me?
Ryoma: We're all with you, Corrin! I'll inform the captain.

Ryoma: By gods...the waterfall IS on fire!
Jakob: Yes. It is a strange phenomenon, but I can explain how it came to be. There is a massive reservoir of oil nearby that has mixed with the water. At some point, hundreds of years ago, the river was set aflame. It may have been a lightning strike, or an accident, but regardless... It has burned ever since. All of us living in Nohr have avoided the general area, for obvious reasons. So naturally, there doesn't appear to be any sort of a path for us to follow.
Ryoma: Hmm...

Ryoma: Corrin, do you see that statue over there? I feel the presence of a Dragon Vein nearby...maybe even two!
Jakob: Be careful! I also sense a hostile presence in the area...

@Boss 
Stoneborn: None shall pass. Your life ends...here.

@End 
Corrin: What's happening? Is this another of Iago's traps?
Ryoma: Corrin, look!
Corrin: A cave! That wasn't here before, was it?

Felicia: Jakob, is that...what I think it is?
Jakob: Yes, this must be it.
Corrin: What are you two talking about? Care to enlighten the rest of us?
Jakob: Do you feel that breeze? It's fresh air, coming from that passageway. Unless I'm mistaken, it will take us directly to the capital of Nohr, Windmire. There were rumors of such a thing, but I never knew it actually existed...
Corrin: That's...that's good news, right?
Ryoma: Yes, if what they suspect is true, this passage would be a massive shortcut.
Jakob: The air is unmistakable. But I don't see why the path would lead here...
Ryoma: The Rainbow Sage must have known about this.
Sakura: O-or maybe he built the secret path himself!
Takumi: Yeah? Well then why didn't he just tell us about it? Sure woulda saved us a lot of trouble and guesswork...
Hinoka: Hey! The Rainbow Sage gave us a hand-drawn map. What else do you want from the guy?
Takumi: Yeah, yeah. I know. Maybe he didn't tell us directly becaus he knew we still had a rat problem. I can just see the traitor now, telling the Nohrians our EXACT route...
Corrin: Takumi...do you truly believe there is still a spy among us?
Takumi: I'd like to believe not, but...we haven't exactly had the best luck so far.
Ryoma: There's no time to debate this. Not when we're about to enter Nohr proper. Now is a time for unity, not division.
Corrin: That's right. We're probably going to have to face off against Xander and Camilla soon... But I'm prepared to fight even them, if I have to. Hear me, King Garon—we're coming for you!@Intro 
Corrin: Well, this should be interesting. I've never sailed before. And we made it just in time to catch the last boat leaving the harbor. How lucky!
Sakura: I know. It's been such a long march—I'm really looking forward to r-resting a bit.
Azura: I wouldn't get too comfortable. Remember, we are on our way to Nohr. Some of the passengers on this ship could be our enemies.
Takumi: Yes, and there could be a spy among us.
Azura: What are you talking about, Takumi?
Takumi: You know exactly what I'm talking about. That whiny little mage from Nohr! Whose idea was it to let him tag along?
Zola: Gah! I'm no threat, guys! I promise! Haven't I been helpful so far?
Hinoka: Don't worry, Takumi. I've been keeping a very close eye on him.
Takumi: I don't know. Didn't he set everyone up back in Izumo? I wouldn't be surprised if he were plotting something.
Zola: But...but...
Hinoka: OK, I'll get my knife ready...
Zola: Eeeek!
Corrin: Calm down, everyone. I trust Zola, and I believe you should as well. He stood with us through one battle without stabbing anyone in the back. Besides, how could he even really information to Nohr? It's a preposterous notion.
Takumi: Sorry. I can't just take your word for it. I don't trust him.
Corrin: That's fine. A little healthy skepticism won't hurt. Just try to be civil, OK?
Takumi: I'll do my best.
Zola: Lord Takumi...
Takumi: What's wrong with you? Did I say that you could speak my name?
Zola: Gah! No, sir. I'm sorry, sir.

Sakura: Well, petty disagreements aside, we've had smooth sailing so far, don't you agree? The captain even says we could reach Nohr tomorrow with favorable winds.
Corrin: That's great news. Although, to be honest, I wouldn't mind a longer trip. It's so relaxing out here.
Sakura: N-not for me. I've been feeling a little seasick, to be honest. But it looks like you've really taken to the sea. You've been out here for hours!
Corrin: Perhaps when all of this is over, I'll buy my own boat... Although...it does appear that the weather is turning on us.
Sakura: Oh! You're right. Those clouds don't look good. And look at the w-waves!
Corrin: Right. Let's head inside before we get soaked!

Corrin: Whoa. It's really roughs out there.
Sakura: Ahhhh! We've stopped moving! How is that even possible? Are you OK, Corrin?
Corrin: Yeah, I'm fine. But we really need to get out of here! Maybe there's a problem with the boat. Let's go speak with the captain.

Corrin: I've never seen a storm come on this quickly. Is this normal at sea?
Sakura: I don't think so. I'm s-scared, Corrin. My goodness! Look at the sea! Those waves are massive! This boat is too big to capsize, right? Right?
Corrin: Stand back! There's something in the water!

Sakura: Eeeek!
Corrin: What is it?
???: Shh...
Corrin: Who goes there? Are...are you the spirit who appeared when my mother was killed?
???: Shh...

Azura: Corrin! What's going on?
Corrin: Stay back, Azura!

Kaze: Milady! Are you OK?
Azura: Yes, I'm fine. Thank you, Kaze!
Kaze: Lord/Lady Corrin! What is that thing?
Corrin: Your guess is as good as mine. A storm came out of nowhere, and then this spirit appeared on deck.
Azura: Maybe it came out of the water...
Kaze: Well, it looks like we have a fight on our hands. Whatever this spirit is, it seems capable of sinking our ship!
Corrin: We've come too far for that. Everyone, on guard!

@Battle 
Reina: Ah, at last. I can see Lord/Lady Corrin from here. Oh my. Look at them struggling with those spirits. Well, I should be able to help them with that! May my bow strike true and deliver exquisite pain and death upon my enemies!

@Recruit-Talk 
%Corrin,Reina 
Reina: Hello, Lord/Lady Corrin. I'm glad you're safe and sound.
Corrin: I'm sorry, but who are you? And do you realize that we're in the middle of a battle?
Reina: Oh, yes, of course. But this type of battle is like a playground to me. I'm Reina, a kinshi knight from Hoshido. Yukimura sent me here to provide you with my special brand of assistance. Specifically, skewering enemies by the dozen. Oh, I wish you could have seen some of the work I did on the way here. The depth of agony was palpable. And the palette of violent reds...so vivid. Mmm...
Corrin: Uh... What?
Reina: I'm talking about the enemies I killed on the way here.
Corrin: Ah. I see. And you're not going to kill any of us, right? Just our enemies?
Reina: Of course! I'm sorry if you misunderstood. Please, just point me in the direction of anything you would like to die.
Corrin: Right. Well, anyone glowing purple would be a good start...

@End 
Corrin: That's the last of them.
Takumi: Ha! Those stupid things didn't know who they were messing with.
Corrin: Well, I'm glad to see that you're feeling like yourself again. Takumi.
Takumi: Me too. After all, I have a long way to go to redeem myself...
Corrin: Takumi, that's simply not true.

???: Shh...
Corrin: Look out!
Takumi: Hmm?
Zola: Lord Takumi! Move!

Takumi: He saved me!
Zola: Ugh...now's your chance. Take him out!
Takumi: With pleasure. Haaaa!

???: Ugh...
Takumi: That did it.
Zola: Well done...Lord...Takumi... Oh...I forgot. I'm not supposed to say your name... *cough* *cough*
Takumi: Oh. About that...
Sakura: Zola! Are you OK? Took quite a shot there. Here, I can help heal your wounds.
Zola: Thank you, milady...
Takumi: Hmm.

Corrin: That was extremely courageous, Zola. Are you all right?
Zola: It was nothing. I'm just glad that Lady Sakura was able to heal me.
Corrin: I beg to differ. It was not nothing. It was a remarkably selfless act.
Takumi: Zola...I have something to say to you.
Zola: Yes, Lord Tak—I mean yes, milord?
Takumi: Please. You've more than earned the right to speak my name. I'm sorry for doubting you.
Zola: Really? You mean that?
Takumi: Yes. Talk is cheap, and I still think I was smart not to trust you at first. But you may have just saved my life. It was a heroic act.
Zola: Thank you, Lord Takumi! I'm just following Lord/Lady Corrin's lead. If it weren't for him/her, I may have died at the hands of Lord Leo in Izumo. Now maybe you'll have the chance to perform a similar gesture.
Takumi: Wait, Corrin jumped in front of an attack meant for you? Right after you tried to kill him/her?
Corrin: Ha! No, Takumi. It wasn't exactly like that. I merely asked Leo to spare Zola's life. He was helpless and defeated.
Zola: Yes. And that kindness was enough to sway Lord Leo. He merely exiled me instead of taking my life.
Takumi: I see. Well, I just hope we can put all of this behind us.
Zola: Of course, milord!
Corrin: Yes. It's time to focus on what's next. Who knows what's waiting for us in Nohr...@Intro 
Corrin: Is everyone ready? This will be our most trying battle yet, but it should hopefully be our last. I urge you to stay on your guard.
Elise: Corrin... Are you really, completely, absolutely sure about all this? About Father being a m-monster?
Corrin: I wish it weren't so, Elise. But it's true. King Garon is no longer of this world. I know it's not easy to hear, but that is what Azura and I have discovered.
Leo: Hmm... You sound pretty sure of yourself, but I can't help but be skeptical. Why didn't you tell us earlier? Why keep it a secret? And why are you two the only ones who know about this alleged truth?
Corrin: It's...it's hard to explain...
Azura: There are answers to your questions, Leo, but we are unable to disclose them. All we can say is that the two of us were able to see through King Garon's disguise. We had to come here, to this throne room, in order to show you what we have seen.
Camilla: We had to come all the way here just to learn the truth? Really, darling?
Corrin: Really. I know how it sounds, but it's the truth! I couldn't have made it through all this if I wasn't completely sure. I've been longing for this moment when I could finally share this with you. Xander and Leo...Elise and Camilla... All of you... I know we've been through a lot, and this is a huge shock, but please... I'm begging you to believe me. I need you to see what's behind these doors with your own eyes.
Xander: Hmm... So be it, Corrin. You have led us this far. The least we can do is follow you just a little farther. I am choosing to trust you, Brother/Sister. However, you know what will happen if this all turns out to be an elaborate ruse. If you mean to trap us, your siblings who have loved you all these years... You will be punished, just like any other traitor. I will not allow anyone, even you, to bring harm to my family or the kingdom of Nohr. If you can accept those terms, as I trust you will, let us proceed.
Corrin: Of course, Xander. If I were lying, I would deserve no better than a traitor's death. Let's go... I need all of you to see this. To see what Father, the great King Garon, has become...

Xander: Father...?
Leo: How could—?

Garon: So...you've seen my true form...

Elise: FATHER?! Please, no!!
Camilla: This...can't be... What's happening to him?!
Azura: Those who sit upon that throne cannot hide the truth within. Behold King Garon's true form!
Garon: Curse you, traitors! How dare you trick your king!! You will pay for this indiscretion! All who see me like this must diiiiie!!

Leo: Ugh! Father... Why?!
Corrin: Leo, stay strong! We have to fight!! If we back down now, he'll kill us all! HYAAAAA!!

Garon: Hmph. Pathetic!
Corrin: Wh-what's happening? The Yato isn't doing any damage!
Garon: You expected to defeat me with a mere child's toy? HA!

Azura: Corrin!
Elise: NO! This is too awful!! *sob* Please, Father! Stop this!
Azura: Elise, now is no time to cry! We need you to fight too!
Camilla: You don't understand, Azura... Although we can see the truth, it's not so easy to attack the man we've called... I can't accept that Father is really gone forever... I just...
Leo: Camilla is right. Whatever has happened to him, he's still our father. I don't know if I can do this...
Azura: You can't be serious! Don't you see what he has become?!
Corrin: Everyone, please! I need you to put aside your disbelief and lend me your strength! This thing is not the man you think he is. This is not Nohr's proud King Garon! All that remains is a monster that has taken over his heart and soul!
Garon: MWAHAHAHAHAAA! My children will not be swayed by a pathetic orphan like you! Time to die, Corrin!!

Xander: ...
Corrin: Xander!
Garon: What is the meaning of this?! You dare point your blade at ME, Crown Prince?
Xander: Silence! Do not speak as though you know me, foul beast.
Garon: What?!
Xander: You are no longer the father I once looked up to. All has become clear. I know...knew my father better than anyone. I always wondered what changed his heart, made it grow cold. Now I know. When I was a young boy, my father was strong and brave... Stern, but fair. But for all his power, he would never have used his strength against his own children. He would never have needlessly conquered or ruined another kingdom!
Garon: Fool! You know nothing.
Xander: It is you who knows nothing! Of my father, of me, or of my brother/sister here. All this time, I have strived to be a good son and a worthy heir. I have faithfully followed your orders, even when doing so tortured my soul. I brushed aside my early memories of Father and accepted you as our king. I fought in your name, hoping one day you would reawaken as the man you once were. But that man is dead and has been for a long time now...
Corrin: Xander... I'm so sorry. But you're right—this is not the Father you once loved. Fight with me, Brother! If you don't, everyone we love will die. We've come too far to lose heart now! Father, rest his soul, wouldn't want this monster further soiling his legacy!
Xander: Right you are, Corrin. That is why I shall once more fight at your side. Just like my father would have—with strength and pride. I will defeat this pretender and restore true peace to this world!

Xander: What's this? My Siegfried...the blade is...
Corrin: Could it be...?!

Xander: The light... It's growing brighter.
Corrin: It's happening again!
Leo: Wow, that light... It's just like when my Brynhildr joined power with the Yato!
Corrin: Does that mean...it's about to change form once more? Whaa... What's...happening...!!
Xander: Corrin!!

Corrin: My sword! The...power!!
Xander: What's wrong, Corrin? Are you all right?!
Corrin: The power—it's flowing through me... Becoming part of me... The power of your Siegfried...and Leo's Brynhildr... Our weapons have joined forces to unlock the Seal of Flames! It is as the Rainbow Sage prophesied... And this new blade...it's whispering its name to me... In my hands, reborn, I grasp the legendary Shadow Yato!

Xander: The Shadow Yato... It's a fitting name. Use its might to reclaim our dear kingdom, which Father once ruled and we will inherit.
Corrin: Yes, Xander... I finally have the strength now... I feel divine energy coursing through me, warming my heart and tempering my soul.
Garon: Fools! Ingrates!! Come at me with a sacred blade or a wooden stick, it matters not. I will kill you all where you stand!
Corrin: We won't let that happen, not now or ever! HYAAAA!!

Garon: What?! NOOO!! Im...PoSs...IbLe...!! I...I...I aM tHe KiNg! I WoN't fALL to A...a...cHilLd...!!
Xander: It is time to end your reign of terror. Camilla, Leo, Elise! Do not stay idly by while Corrin battles for his/her life and yours. If you are truly Nohrian royals, then stand up and fight! Fight for our kingdom and for our world... Fight for each other...and for our father. In his memory, let us defeat the beast who destroyed him!
Leo: Xander... You're right. I lost my nerve for a moment, but I understand now. As a Nohrian royal, I will fight for all we hold dear, I will fight until we have won!
Camilla: It hurts...so very much, but if we win this battle... Perhaps Father's spirit will be able to rest in peace. I have to believe that.
Elise: This monster... He's the only father I've ever known... But I want to protect the people I love! I won't let them die! Forgive me, Father, but... I'm through listening to you!
Corrin: I believe in you, my brothers and sisters. We will not let this beast prevail! We will fight, and together we shall rid the world of this ancient evil! This evil that has crept into our world and forced Nohr and Hoshido into futile war... We will save the world and free the real King Garon's imprisoned spirit!

@Boss 
Garon: I...WiLl nOt LoSe... I WiLl RuLe nOhR aNd hOsHiDo...tHe wHoLe WoRld!! I aM tHe GrEaTeSt KiNg Of aLl!!

Garon: tHiS iS...ImPoSsIBlE... IMPOSSIBLE!!

%Corrin,Garon 
Garon: i ShOuLd hAvE KiLlEd YoU... EvEn If iT mEaNt...DisObEyInG tHe GrEaT AnAnKoS...
Corrin: Anankos? What are you talking about?! Your god has nothing to do with this! We all make our own decisions. You are responsible for all of this, monster! You destroyed the heart of a good man for your own selfish gain. But even you could have chosen a different path. No matter the circumstances we are born into, or the blood in our veins... We are all the masters of our own fate! That is why I am not like you, nor could I ever be. I chose the path I believe in, the path of peace. And that conviction, that strength... I will use that power to defeat you!

@End 
Corrin: ...
Xander: ...Rest in peace, Father.
Corrin: Xander... We did the right thing. I know in my heart this was the only way to save him. I just wish...I could have gotten to know the real Garon. Good-bye...Father... ...

Corrin: That's it, my dear friends and siblings. We won the war! Quickly, let's free the remaining Hoshidan soldiers and release the prisoners—
Takumi: Betrayal...betrayal... I am betrayal!

Takumi: ...
Corrin: Takumi?! You're alive! But...what happened to you?
Takumi: The pain of betrayal... Yours and mine... It burns... BURNS!! I must... I WILL...kill you... KILL YOU...
Corrin: Takumi, snap out of it! Please...
Takumi: I will...kill you...lost brother/sister... Die, Corrin!!

Takumi: Betrayal... Death... Murder... Betrayal... Death... Murder...
Corrin: Takumi, stop this! The war is over! King Garon has been defeated!! Please, Brother! There's no reason to fight each other anymore!
Takumi: War...betrayal...death...murder... That is all there is... I will not...be swayed... War...betrayal...death...
Corrin: Dammit, Takumi! Please, stop this madness and listen to me for a change!
Azura: Corrin, wait! I'm afraid he can't be reasoned with. You're not going to want to hear this, but... I believe he is possessed by something, just as King Garon was.
Corrin: No! Please, it can't be so...
Azura: I'm sorry, Corrin, but look at him! The way he's moving and speaking... Takumi is...no longer with us. I'm afraid it's too late to save him. I'm guessing when he threw himself off the Great Wall of Suzanoh he was already—
Corrin: No! I can't accept that!! Are you saying I must now defeat my own brother? Killing my father wasn't enough?!
Azura: *sigh* Yes, that is what I am saying. I'm so sorry...
Corrin: This can't be happening...
Takumi: It's all your fault... Hoshido is dead... All...your...fault!! You destroyed...my kingdom...my family... If you die...I can rest... If you die...the pain... The pain will stop...if I kill you!!
Corrin: Takumi!! Please, my brother. Please don't cry...
Azura: We have to fight him, Corrin. His mind is...not well. The monster has latched on to his regrets, to his resentment and bitterness. His heart and mind have been pushed past the point of no return. We have to stop him before more innocent lives are lost.
Corrin: Wait! Don't move.
Azura: Corrin?
Corrin: Takumi has every right to be angry with me. I am to blame for much of the heartache in his life... I chose this path. I do not regret it...but I must take responsibility for it. There's only one way to do that...
Azura: Y-you don't intend to— ?! Wait, Corrin! It's too dangerous! Please! Come back!!
Corrin: ...
Takumi: Corrin... Betrayal... Death... Must...kill you...
Corrin: Takumi... I know I've never been there for you like a brother/sister should... I've caused you much suffering, and I couldn't save you at the Great Wall... This all grieves me more than you will ever know, but I will not fall here on this day. I won't let you kill me, but the very least I can do...is accept all of your anger.
Takumi: Death! Murder! BETRAYAL!! I will kill you, Corrin! I...WILL...KILL YOU!!
Corrin: Takumi! If you're going to aim that thing at anyone, aim it at me. I'm the one you want! Go on then. Loose your arrow, brother!
Takumi: DIIIIIEEEE!!
Corrin: ?!
Azura: Corrin!!
Elise: NOOOOO!! Corrin?! Corrin!!
Xander: How could one arrow be so powerful?!
Corrin: Don't worry... I'm...fine... After all I've...been through... That's not enough...to stop me... Ryoma is...counting on me... Takumi! Th-that wasn't enough...was it? To quell your hatred of me... Hit me again...my brother... Do what you need...to do...
Xander: Corrin?! Corrin!!@Intro 
Silas: We've finally made it to the port. So far, so good. From here we can catch a ferry to Notre Sagesse. Felicia/Jakob's off making the arrangements as we speak.
Corrin: Wonderful. We should all take this rare opportunity to relax for a bit. Azura in particular looks exhausted.
Silas: I noticed too. Well, it hasn't been an easy journey here. But there's also... Well, let's just say Lady Elise has grown awfully found of her. In fact, Lady Elise has been talking to her almost nonstop since they met. Lady Azura is very polite, but I worry all that chatter is wearing her out.
Corrin: Ha ha, you may have a point. Poor Azura doesn't stand a chance. Once Elise gets going, it's hard to stop her. She's a one-woman stampede.
Silas: It's as though she's trying to make up for all the sibling time they missed out on. It's rather heartwarming when you think about it.
Corrin: Sibling time, eh? Hmm...
Silas: Ah! I'm so sorry, Corrin. I didn't mean to remind you of your own siblings in Hoshido. Please forgive me for making such an insensitive comment.
Corrin: Oh, don't worry about it. I was actually thinking of something else.  
Silas: What's wrong, Corrin?
Corrin: Huh? Oh! It's nothing. I was just lost in thought.
Silas: Are you sure there's nothing... Oh, look at that! Felicia/Jakob has returned. Oh dear/That's strange, she/he appears to be out of breath. I wonder what's wrong...

Felicia: Emergency! EMERGENCY!! Hoshidan f-forces are heading our way. They'll be here any minute!
Corrin: The Hoshidans? Here?! Felicia, are you sure?
Felicia: Yes, milord, I'm afraid so. I overheard one of the guards say so on my way here. He also said they're holding all the ferries until they've left. This is bad! Really bad! What are we going to do, Lord Corrin?
Corrin: Fighting is our only option. We have to beat them and get on that ferry. It's the only way we'll be able to carry out Father's mission. But...
Felicia: What is it, Corrin?
Corrin: When we fought the Hoshidans at Fort Dragonfall, they were only strangers. I haven't had to face Ryoma and the others, not since that fateful day when I... I know it's inevitable, but the thought of fighting my blood siblings... I just...
Felicia: Lord Corrin... I don't know what to say. It's a difficult position, isn't it? I'd understand completely if you decided you didn't want to fight them. If it's causing you so much pain, let's just turn around and go home.
Corrin: Thank you, Felicia, but I'm afraid it's not that simple. Sooner or later we all must face the consequences of our actions. I knew this would happen when I followed my heart and sided with my Nohrian family. I must stand behind that decision no matter what. I will not run.
Felicia: I understand. Very well then. I'll tell Lady Elise and the others to prepare for battle.
Corrin: Please do.


Jakob: Milady, we have an emergency situation on our hands! Hoshidan forces are heading our way. They shall arrive momentarily.
Corrin: The Hoshidans? Here?! Jakob, are you sure?
Jakob: I'm afraid so. I overheard as much from a guard on my way here. The guard also said all ferries are being denied until they've left. What would you like to do, milady?
Corrin: ... Fighting is our only option. We have to beat them and get on that ferry. It's the only way we'll be able to carry out Father's mission. But...
Jakob: What's wrong, Lady Corrin?
Corrin: When we fought the Hoshidans at Fort Dragonfall, they were only strangers. I haven't had to face Ryoma and the others, not since that fateful day when I... I know it's inevitable, but the thought of fighting my blood siblings... I just...
Jakob: Lady Corrin... I hate to see you in such agony. None of us would judge if you chose not to engage in battle against your siblings. Instead of tormenting yourself, why don't we just turn around and go home?
Corrin: Thank you, Jakob, but I'm afraid it's not that simple. Sooner or later we all must face the consequences of our actions. I knew this would happen when I followed my heart and sided with my Nohrian family. I must stand behind that decision no matter what. I will not run.
Jakob: Understood, milady. I'll let the others know what's happened so they can prepare for battle.
Corrin: Please do.

Corrin: ... Making up for lost time with lost siblings... the battlefield is a poor place for that. Perhaps in another life, things could have turned out differently. Please forgive me, Ryoma... Takumi... Please forgive me...
Takumi: You abandoned your family, and Hoshido... Now, pay for your betrayal!

Corrin: Is that... Takumi?! Wow, he's not just fighting, he's leading the whole army! Still, I meant what I said. Even if Takumi is involved, we must defend this port. This is Nohrian territory. I won't allow the Hoshidans to take our homeland from us!
Hinata: Lord Takumi! It seems the Nohrians aren't going to back down.
Takumi: So they plan to fight us, do they? I suppose I shouldn't be surprised. Nohrians aren't like normal, decent people. They live for the thrill of battle. All the better. I shall delight in putting those cowards in their place.
Oboro: It looks like there's only a handful of them anyway. Should be an easy win.
Takumi: Agreed. Even so, it's never a good idea to underestimate one's enemy. I refuse to lose to the Nohrians, especially while that traitor is among their ranks. We must prevail, for the sake of Hoshido and all that is good in the world!

@Visit 
Old Woman: Say what? This town is caught up in the war between Nohr and Hoshido? Blast it all, what a pain in the patoot. Guess I'll hole up until things settle. Thanks for letting me know. Please take this with you.

Old Man: Eh? This town is now a battlefield, you say? What in tarnation... It does seem dangerous out there. Alrighty, I'll lock up tight, then. Thanks for the warning, stranger. Here, take this.

Girl: Oh dear! I've heard rumors about the war, but I never thought it would reach us here. I'll lock up tight and keep the little ones indoors today. Here, please take this as a token of my gratitude. I don't need it anyway.

Boy: Dang, I had a feeling somethin' was up when I heard all that commotion. Never thought this town would see war... well, th-thanks for the heads-up. Really, you might have saved my life. This is for you. Go on, I insist!

@Battle 
Selena: Lord/Lady Corrin! Are these ridiculous Hoshidans giving you a hard time? You're so hopeless, heh heh. Lucky for you we're here to bail you out.
Corrin: Huh? Who are you two? You don't seem like enemies, but...
Selena: Wow. Really? Just wow. I cannot BELIEVE you've forgotten about me. You monster! Beruka! Say something, dammit!
Beruka: ...
Corrin: Aww, she's shy, isn't she? Beruka, is it? It's nice to meet you!
Beruka: ... You're heartless. A heartless monster.
Corrin: Whaaa?! Why would you say that? Who are you people, anyway?!
Camilla: There you are, my naughty little retainers. Even though I said we were in a rush, that's no excuse to leave me behind!
Corrin: Camilla!
Camilla: Corrin! Oh, I'm so glad we made it in time. Tell your big sister the truth - did these foul creatures make you cry? Be honest!
Corrin: Ha ha, of course not! I'm fine, promise!
Selena: Lady Camilla! Sorry we got ahead of you. But you should have heard the horrible things Lord/Lady Corrin said to us. Even though we used to watch over him/her, he/she doesn't remember us at all. Sure, we always stuck to the shadows and never introduced ourselves... but still! I could cry right now. Really! I really could!
Beruka: All that time hovering... caring... watching... it was all for naught. He/She has no heart.
Camilla: Now, now, you two. I'm sure he/she didn't mean to hurt your feelings. I'm certain he/she would remember, given more time. You simply must forgive him/her. Now that all that's settled, let me introduce my lovely retainers to you, Corrin. Say hello to Selena and Beruka. Aren't they tough yet adorable?! I love them so.
Corrin: It's nice to meet you. I mean, to see you again. I'm really sorry I upset you both. Wait... Camilla, if you're here, does that mean you finished your mission already?
Camilla: Heh heh, well, in a sense. Xander and Leo are taking care of it for me. They really liked the idea of me coming to help you. That's our little secret, OK? Now I can destroy any nasty people try to harm my darling baby brother/sister.
Corrin: That's sweet... if not a little scary. Thank you, Camilla. And you too, Selena and Beruka. I appreciate your help.
Selena: I guess I'll do my best to protect you or whatever. I'm still pretty angry though.
Beruka: I'll kill them all. For Lady Camilla.

@Boss 
Hinata: I'm gonna give this fight all I've got for Lord Takumi! Prepare yourself!

Hinata: Bah! Guess I'll... have to retreat... This isn't over!

Oboro: I'll strike down anyone who dares lay so much as a finger on Lord Takumi!

Oboro: I must retreat... Forgive me, Lord Takumi...

Takumi: On my honor as a prince of Hoshido, I shall not fall upon a Nohrian's blade!

Takumi: No! How could... this happen? Forced to retreat... again...

%Corrin,Hinata 
Hinata: Well, lookee here. Looks like we got a Nohrian pig on our hands. Corrin, right? Or do you prefer Lord/Lady Traitor?
Corrin: Traitor? Is that what Takumi told you? I might have expected as much.
Hinata: Milord calls it like he sees it. He told me all about your lies and betrayal. As Lord Takumi's retainer, it's my job to punish those who cause him pain. Besides, I can't forgive you for what you did to Hoshido either. That's why I'm pleased to pieces to be the one to show you to your grave!

%Corrin,Oboro 
Oboro: Wait... Aren't you Corrin? Lord Takumi's brother/sister? I don't believe we've met. I'm Oboro, his retainer. Usually I'd be under orders to protect you. Sadly, that's not the case today... Today we meet as enemies, so you'll have to forgive what I'm about to do.
Corrin: I understand, as I feel precisely the same way. It's truly a shame, isn't it? Oh, um... By the way, you should know you're making a really strange face.
Oboro: Huh? Ah, sorry about that. I do so despise Nohrians. So much so, in fact, that my face turns sour whenever I'm looking at one. Don't worry about it. It's nothing personal.
Corrin: So strange...

%Corrin,Takumi
Takumi: Any last words, Corrin?
Corrin: Takumi... In your heart you must know this is the last thing I ever wanted.
Takumi: Ah, how quaint. More pretty words from the Prince/Princess of Betrayal. How can you stand to live after the horrors you caused in Hoshido? My suspicions must be accurate. Nohrians don't have souls.
Corrin: Words could never express my sorrow for what took place...
Takumi: Oh? Are you still human enough to feel remorse? Fascinating. It's a fitting last emotion. I hope you feel its sting as I strike you down!

%Azura,Takumi
Takumi: Azura?! Last I heard, you were taken by Hoshidan soldiers. Ryoma worried himself sick planning your rescue. I told him it was pointless. And you proved me right, you Nohrian traitor. You should be ashamed.
Azura: I could not return to Hoshido, Takumi. Not with things as they are. It saddened me deeply to leave behind those who treated me so kindly.
Takumi: You sound just like the royal traitor. I always knew this would happen. That's why I never trusted you. Didn't you always wonder? Had I known your betrayal would come so swiftly, I'd have killed you myself. Still, I should have pressed Ryoma harder to banish you years ago.
Azura: Your grudge is clearly beyond words. Let us do what we came here to do.

@End 
Takumi: Dammit! This is unacceptable! We can't push forward with so many of our troops injured. This can't be happening...
Corrin: Please listen to reason, Takumi. You've lost this battle. Do your soldiers a favor and order them to retreat from this port immediately. You may all keep your lives and your dignity if you leave now.
Takumi: Humph! How very generous of you, dear brother/sister. But I know better. The savage Nohrian army knows nothing of mercy.
Corrin: Perhaps you should take this as a lesson not to judge all Nohrians on face value. I spoke the truth. My soldiers do not harm those who do not seek to harm us.
Takumi: Ha! Tell me, Corrin, how is it lies come so easily to you? Your words mean nothing in light of all the innocent Hoshidan lives you took. Including that of our dear mother, or have you forgotten your part in her murder? Yet after all that, you still have the gall to claim you aren't a savage. Pathetic.
Camilla: My, what a rude little boy you are. I should beat some manners into you. Take back what you just said, or that's exactly what I'll do...
Corrin: No, Camilla. He is entitled to his anger. I am at least partly to blame for the tragedies that took place that day.
Takumi: That's right! If you hadn't come back into our lives, Hoshido would still be at peace. Mother... all those innocent townspeople... they would still be alive. They wouldn't have... ARGH! NOOO!
Corrin: Takumi! What's wrong?!
Takumi: M-my head... the pain is... ARGHHH!
Corrin: Takumi!
Takumi: DON'T YOU TOUCH ME! K-keep your filthy Nohrian hands off of me!
Corrin: Takumi... please, let me help!
Takumi: Don't think this means you've won. This is only the beginning! Ryoma has already found the Rainbow Sage and received his power. You're no match for him now, even with the whole vile Nohrian army behind you! And I'm getting stronger, too! Soon I'll be unstoppable. One day you'll beg me for death, and I will happily grant you. Until then, I leave you with your guilt.
Corrin: Takumi! Wait! ...
Camilla: Let him go, Corrin. He's clearly got issues. And not to brag, but Xander received the Rainbow Sage's power ages ago. If we stick together, there's no way we'll lose to the Hoshidan army.
Corrin: I hope you're right...
Elise: Erm, sorry to interrupt, but it looks like the ferries are up and running again. Let's get out of this dump and head to Notre Sagesse. I'll even tell you a fun story I made up about two caterpillars on a little leaf boat.
Corrin: Thanks, Elise. You've got yourself a deal. In any case, I need to put this all behind me and focus on the task at hand. If what Father said is true, we'll be facing Hoshidan forces in Notre Sagesse as well. There's no time to overthink things... No time for guilt or regret. Well, what are we waiting for? Let's get going!@Intro 
Corrin: Gods...these stairs seem to go on forever.
Azura: Indeed. But what did you expect? This is the Eternal Stairway. Not to worry—we've almost reached the halfway point.
Corrin: Right. I suppose there is no Five-Minute Stairway we could have taken instead.
Kaze: Lord/Lady Corrin, please be silent for a moment...
Corrin: Yeah, that fell a bit flat. Sorry.
Kaze: No, that's not it. I'm sensing an unusual presence. I think we're being followed.
Corrin: How is that possible? I haven't seen any signs of life...
Kaze: Attention! Whoever you are! Show yourself now if you wish to avoid conflict!

Corrin: Faceless! Where did they come from?
Kaze: How strange. I expected humans. The Faceless usually aren't this stealthy. In any case, we have no time to spare. Let's take them out!

Corrin: Azura, can you please guard Sakura while we deal with this?
Azura: Yes, of course.
Sakura: Be careful, Corrin!
Corrin: Are you ready, Kaze? Let's do this.

Kaze: You can count on me. Hyah!

Corrin: Stand aside or be destroyed!

Corrin: All right, just a few more standing...

Corrin: Everyone, hold! Something isn't right.

Azura: What's the matter, Corrin?
Corrin: These aren't Faceless—they're people! Gods! What have we done?
Azura: I'm afraid you're right. I recognize their clothing. These people are from the Wind Tribe.
Corrin: I don't understand. A moment ago, this person right here was a Faceless monster!
???: Ahahaha...
Corrin: Who's there? Show yourself at once!

Iago: Good day, Princeling/Princess. Did you enjoy my magic trick?
Corrin: Iago! What have you done?
Iago: I didn't do a thing! You're the one who struck down these poor villagers.
Corrin: Why? What could you possibly have to gain...
Iago: Don't you see? This is just the beginning. Now that you're with the Hoshidans, anything is fair game. Oh, your ignorance does tickle me. Bwahahah!

Kaze: And he's gone.
Azura: This puts us in an unfortunate position, to say the least. The route ahead takes us thorugh Wind Tribe territory. And we're going to have a hard time explaining what just happened.
Sakura: Who was that maniac, anyway? Do you know him, Corrin?
Corrin: Yes. His name is Iago. King Garon's right-hand man. I didn't know he was capable of this sort of thing. He probably made US appear to be Faceless to those poor villagers...
Azura: Well, he did do us one favor. He revealed himself to us as an enemy. I'm sure we'll have to go through him to get to King Garon.
Corrin: Yes, I would expect so...

Kaze: We've arrived. This is the Wind Tribe Village we must pass through. Lord/Lady Corrin, are you certain you want to approach the village directly?
Corrin: Yes. Trying to sneak around will only makes us seem more suspicious. Surely they'll understand that we mean them no harm.
Kaze: I'm not as optimistic, but I will trust your judgment. Ah, it looks as though the decision has been made for us...

Tribalist: Here they are! The savages who attacked our people!
Tribalist: Prepare to die.
Corrin: Please wait! We can explain. It is true that we fought with some of your people. But we were deceived by an enemy from Nohr.
Tribalist: Please. How stupid do you think we are?
Kaze: This is going well.
Corrin: Right. Any ideas?
Sakura: Excuse me! Can I have everyone's attention?
Corrin: Sakura! Be careful!
Sakura: Please forgive us. We are so s-sorry to have hurt your people. But you must understand that they appeared before us as Faceless!
Tribalist: Lady Sakura? You're with these brigands?
Tribalist: Yeah, what's going on here?
Azura: Please. You must believe us.
Tribalist: Lady Azura is with them too! Maybe they are telling the truth...
Tribalist: Hold that thought. Have you considered that THIS might be a trap? Either way, we can't make this decision ourselves. Let's see what Chief Fuga has to say.
Corrin: Very well. We would be happy to speak with your Chief Fuga.
Tribalist: Speak? Bwahaha! Somehow I don't think that's what the chief will have in mind.
Corrin: I see...
Azura: Be careful, Corrin. I believe your strategy is sage, but... We are putting ourselves in a higly vulnerable position.
Corrin: Yes, I'm well aware of that. But what choice do we have?

@Battle 
Hinoka: What's going on here? I thought the Wind Tribe was neutral.
Azama: Oh ho! The human mind is weak and malleable. Things change.
Setsuna: Oops.
Azama: Setsuna? Have you shrunk about, oh, a foot or so in the last minute?
Setsuna: No. I'm actually sinking in some quicksand.
Azama: Mmm? Quicksand at this latitude? How fascinating!
Setsuna: Am I going to die now?
Azama: Physically...yes, probably. But your spirit will live on in our memories...
Hinoka: Azama! Why aren't you doing anything to help her? And Setsuna... Why are you so calm? Is this some sort of joke? Gah! I guess I'll have to save you.
Setsuna: Ah. Thank you, milady.
Azama: My, my. Lady Hinoka the Hero.
Hinoka: *sigh* Azama, we are currently under attack. Can you try to be serious for two seconds?
Azama: Of course, milady! Although, I am currently without any battle implements, so... I'm afraid I'm at the mercy of your protection.
Setsuna: I think I'm stuck in the quicksand again...
Hinoka: Gods. I knew I couldn't rely on the two of you, but this is worse than I imagined! Just try and hold it together long enough for us to see this through, all right? Maybe Ryoma and Takumi can help me babysit, once we finally catch up to them...

@Recruit-Talk 
%Corrin,Hinoka
Corrin: Hinoka! What are you doing here?
Hinoka: I could ask you the same question, Corrin.
Corrin: Yes, well... A lot has happened. I thought you were in the capital.
Hinoka: Yes, I was. But I decided to try to catch up to Ryoma and Takumi on their way to Izumo.
Corrin: Ah. Well, it's good that we met up...but I have some bad news. Ryoma and Takumi are missing. We're trying to track them down.
Hinoka: Missing? Oh gods... They are not the sort of men that simply go missing. What has happened to them, Corrin?
Corrin: We don't know. And we've run into a few problems of our own along the way...
Hinoka: Yes, I can see that. I thought the Wind Tribe was neutral. Why are we fighting?
Corrin: It's a long story, but I believe that we'll be able to explain ourselves to the chief. Will you join us? We could certainly use a little help.
Hinoka: Of course! Although, a LITTLE help is about all you'll get from these two...
Corrin: What do you mean by that? Never mind... I'm just happy to have you all on our side. Let's do this!

@Battle 
Fuga: So. You've made it this far.
Corrin: You must be Chief Fuga. Please, allow me to explain—
Fuga: No. You must earn the right to explain. Show me that you fight with honor!

@Boss 
Fuga: You've shown some fortitude. Now show me that you're worthy of my attention!

@End 
Fuga: Bahaha! Well done. I suppose I shouldn't have underestimated one who carries the sacred Yato blade. Now, I will gladly hear an explanation for the unprovoked attack on my people.
Corrin: Yes, of course. Wait—what do you know of my blade?
Fuga: Ah, King Sumeragi and I were good friends. I learned much about the history of that weapon from him. I also shared concern for its future, which is why it was necessary for me to test you.
Corrin: Test me? How so?
Fuga: Corrin, the blade you possess has the power to link the Seal of Flames. In the wrong hands, it could unleash enough power to end the world. That's why I wanted to see for myself if you are indeed the right person to handle it.
Corrin: I see. And what of the villagers we wounded?
Fuga: I already knew that you and your associates were acting in good faith. For what reason would Hoshidan royalty attack a stranger? And then allow her party to be peacefully captured by the stranger's tribe? No, I was well aware that something was amiss.
Corrin: Well, thank you for believing in us. This is the first good news we've had in some time, I'm afraid.
Fuga: Oh? Please, I would gladly hear your full story. But let us freshen up from the battle and sit down to a proper meal first.
Corrin: I appreciate the invitation—and believe me, a bit of rest and a meal are what we need... But we're in search of Lord Ryoma and Lord Takumi. We haven't a moment to spare.
Fuga: I see. Then you must be on your way. Best of luck.

Corrin: Well, I suppose that worked out better than it could have...
Azura: Yes. I'm glad to know we can still count the Wind Tribe among our friends.
Corrin: I'm still puzzling a bit over what Fuga said about my blade. Do you know anything about the Seal of Flames?
Azura: No. But I found it curious that he described "linking" the seal. Could there be more than one Seal of Flames? If so, could there be more than one sacred blade out there? It is a troubling idea. What if our enemies already possess a similar weapon?
Corrin: Right. That is a troubling thought. But let's focus on the problems in front of us before inventing new ones.
Azura: You're right, Corrin. I suppose I'm getting carried away.
Corrin: Perhaps we've spoken too soon. Here comes Chief Fuga, and he appears to be in a hurry.
Fuga: Corrin! Please wait a moment.
Corrin: How can we help you, Chief? Is everything OK?
Fuga: Yes, yes, thank you. It occurred to me that we might be able to make a mutually beneficial arrangement. You are in need of all the men and women you can get. And we have a skilled diviner who could use some real-world experience. His name is Hayato, and he would like to offer his services to your party.
Hayato: Good day.
Corrin: Um...
Hayato: Is there a problem?
Fuga: Please! Don't judge him by his youthful appearance. Hayato has mastered a number of unique skills that make him invaluable.
Hayato: I don't mean to sound conceited, but... You would be lucky to have me on your team.
Corrin: Very well! I certainly won't turn down your assistance at a time like this.
Fuga: Splendid. I hope he makes a valuable addition to your team. And as for you, Hayato, I'm glad to finally be able to offer you this chance to travel.
Corrin: Travel? I hope you both realize that this isn't exactly a vacation...
Fuga: Of course. It's just that Hayato has not had much opportunity to leave the village. In addition to helping you, he will be exploring the world for the first time.
Corrin: I see. I think I understand exactly how he feels. After all, I spent most of my childhood locked in a Nohrian castle.
Fuga: Well, then I'm sure you two will have a lot to talk about. And I trust you'll take good care of our Hayato.
Hayato: Chief! Must I remind you again that I am no longer a child?
Fuga: You're right, you're right. I must admit that I still feel a bit protective at times...
Hayato: Dad! I mean...Chief! Lord/Lady Corrin, he's not my dad. He's just looked after me since I was a child.
Corrin: It's OK. I understand. Anyway...we should get going. Welcome aboard, Hayato. And thank you for everything, Chief Fuga.
Fuga: No need to thank me. Please feel free to come back here anytime you'd like. I'm proud to have met the one whom the sacred Yato chose. We shall meet again.@Intro 
Corrin: Here we are... The Hoshidan capital. What a long journey it's been.
Azura: Yes, but soon this long ordeal will finally be over. If we can take control of the capital and seize the throne room, victory will be ours.
Corrin: Azura... Are you OK with that?
Azura: ...Why do you ask?
Corrin: We're about to conquer the place where you grew up...the castle you called home. If this is too much for you, I'd understand. You can leave the fighting to me. If you need to, go hide somewhere safe until our work here is done.
Azura: Thank you, my friend, but I'm afraid I can't do that. I didn't side with Nohr just to lose my nerve and turn tail at the pivotal moment. I told you once, and I shall tell you again. I am with you until the bitter end. Ending this war will benefit us all, even the kingdom I grew up in. This is what I need to do, not just for you, not just for the world... But also for the Hoshidan siblings I love so dearly. That is what I believe, with all my heart. It is why I am able to bear this burden.
Corrin: Azura...
Azura: Speaking of our Hoshidan siblings... We never did find him.
Corrin: You're right. I don't know what to think... It's too much to process right now.
Azura: Poor Takumi. Our troops made a thorough search of the area, but didn't find a thing. Nothing... Not even a single clue as to where he might have gone. It's as though Takumi just...vanished. But I know that's not possible.
Corrin: ...
Azura: We should probably keep this from Princess Sakura. She has enough to deal with at the moment.
Corrin: Yes, I agree. There will be plenty of time to further break her heart later. *sigh*
Xander: Corrin, I must speak with you.
Corrin: Let me guess... Is it time?
Xander: We have received our orders from Father. We are to invade the capital immediately. Please prepare your troops...and yourself.
Corrin: Understood.

Boy: It's them! Gods, the rumors are true! The Nohrian army is headed this way!
Girl: They're so frightening... Like an army of reapers out for blood!
Corrin: ...
Boy: Look! Prince/Princess Traitor is marching with them! SHAME on him/her!
Corrin: *sigh*
Old Man: How dare you show your face here after what you did to Queen Mikoto!
Old Woman: My husband died in that explosion, just like our queen. Monsters! All of you!!
Corrin: I must...stay strong...
Iago: Filthy street rats! Out of my way!

Old Woman: AHHHHH!
Corrin: Iago!
Iago: Hmph, one less blathering fool in the world. Rest easy, Lord/Lady Corrin. I shall personally destroy anyone who dares speak an ill word about you.
Hans: GWAHAHAHA!! Just try and cross us Nohrians, and watch the bodies drop!

Boy: Ahhhhhh!!
Corrin: No... Please...
Azura: Patience, Corrin. King Garon is close behind. There is no telling what he'll do if he sees you standing up for Hoshidans.
Corrin: ...

Iago: Ah, we've finally arrived at our new castle! And no guards to stop us, heh heh. They must be in defense mode. I'd wager that all of their forces are waiting inside.
Xander: Hmm, so it would seem. This bodes well for us. Our army is large enough to surround the entire premises. We might be able to secure their surrender without raising a blade.
Iago: Oh, I'm afraid that won't do, Lord Xander.
Xander: Pardon?
Iago: This is our only chance to finally eliminate those pesky Hoshidan insects. They don't deserve the honor of a clean and quick surrender. Besides, so long as they live, those who follow them will never stop fighting. Now is the perfect opportunity for us to kill their royalty and stake our claim. For the glory of Nohr, every last one of the Hoshidan royals must die.
Xander: That's low even for you, Iago!
Iago: Oh? Well let's ask our king, shall we? King Garon! Your Majesty! What do you think of my plan? May I proceed?
Garon: Kill them all.
Iago: I thought you might say that. Thank you, my liege.
Xander: Father...
Iago: Now that we've settled our differences, let's begin the invasion. My men will attack from the rear while Lord/Lady Corrin's troops storm the front. Divide and conquer, as they say!
Xander: ... What say you, Corrin? Any objections?
Corrin: ...None. If this is what Father wishes, then so be it.
Iago: Oh, Xander, hasn't our "little prince/princess" grown so? How proud must you be! Now then, let's begin. My troops will meet up with yours in the throne room. Do try your best not to slip and die on your own tears, will you? Heh heh heh.
Corrin: ... Xander, what do we—?
Xander: I know. I don't like this plan any more than you do. But we must stay strong. If we falter now, the whole world will pay the price. Corrin... Camilla told me you once asked her where justice lies.
Corrin: Yes. She didn't have any more answers than I do.
Xander: Little prince/princess... The sad truth is that justice is an illusion. A child's fairy tale. There is no light path that always leads to good, nor dark path that leads to evil. To believe that—to see the world in black and white—is missing half the picture. All that matters are the choices we make—especially the hard ones.
Corrin: But this? It's too much...
Xander: Letting innocents die is a tragedy, but so is letting the chance for peace slip away. This is war. There is no such thing as a clean win when lives are on the line. Instead of clinging to a false sense of justice, hold strong to something true... The desire to do what you know is right and to protect the ones you love... And the ambition to see your vision of a peaceful future through to the end. If we allow evil men to let their vision take precedence over our own, we all lose. Remember that, and find solace in it.
Corrin: You're right, Xander. I know in my heart that you're right. Gods, give me strength...

@Battle 
Azama: Oh my... It appears your little brother/sister has brought friends for supper, Lady Hinoka.
Hinoka: Corrin... Hmph.
Setsuna: Are we going to fight?
Hinoka: Yes. I will not let Castle Shirasagi fall, even to my own brother/sister. Don't let even a single person breach the throne room! If I can't at least stop that, I'm a sorry excuse for a princess.
Setsuna: OK, sure... I'll do my best.
Azama: We will protect you, Lady Hinoka, with all the strength we possess.
Hinoka: Heh, I never thought I'd hear you speak so gravely, Azama. Whatever happens, I'm proud to fight with the two of you at my side. Thank you, Azama. And you, Setsuna. Thank you for everything. And don't even try to die on me... We're in this together!

Hinoka: I spent my whole life looking for you. Finally...I found you!

@Boss 
Setsuna: I told Lady Hinoka I'd do my best... So here I go.

Setsuna: I lost? I've never felt...so frustrated...

Azama: Those who live such a barbaric life do not deserve my mercy. Make peace with your choices, for I am about to send you to your death!

Azama: Fools... Your day of judgment will come...soon enough...

Hinoka: I don't care who you are or who you're with. I will not let you pass!

Hinoka: It's up to you now...Ryoma... Please...protect our home...

%Corrin,Hinoka 
Hinoka: Hello, Corrin. Here you are back in your true home. How does it feel?
Corrin: I'm sorry, Hinoka, but I must seize the Hoshidan throne. Let me pass, or I will strike you down.
Hinoka: You can't mean that! Do you really feel nothing for this place? For us?! I always imagined welcoming you home, seeing you running up those steps. I longed to watch you grow up...to call you brother/sister and hold you tight. That was my dream. But now... That dream is dead. Isn’t it, Corrin?
Corrin: Hinoka...
Hinoka: Psh, what am I wasting my time for? Dreaming of things that will never be... The enemy commander is right in front of me. There’s only one thing to do. When I’m through with you, you will never threaten this kingdom again!

@End 
Hinoka: Drat! How could I lose?! Our castle... I failed...
Corrin: Lay down your weapon, Hinoka. It's over.
Hinoka: Hmph! If you're going to kill me, just get it over with. I won't beg for mercy. All I ask is that you spare the lives of my remaining soldiers.
Azama: No, milady! You don't know what you're saying. You are a princess of Hoshido. You must not fall!
Setsuna: You can't do that, Lady Hinoka... If you die, I'll die with you.
Hinoka: Azama, Setsuna... I need you to stay strong for me.
Corrin: I'm...I'm afraid I have no choice. Father would never allow an enemy leader to survive. I'm sorry , but...I must do what I must do.
Hinoka: I understand. Please, make it quick.
Corrin: Of course. *sigh*

Corrin: HYAAAA!!

Hinoka: Ugh!

Hinoka: ...Huh?
Azama: He/She missed?! And not by accident... But why?
Setsuna: Yes, tell us. Why did you spare her?
Hinoka: Corrin?
Corrin: Hinoka... My sister, listen carefully. As of this moment, you are dead to the world. Leave this place, and do it now. I beg of you, take your retainers and find somewhere to hide. I hate to send you out unarmed, but I must ask for your weapon. Quickly. I must have something to show Father as proof that I defeated you.
Hinoka: What are you saying?! You're really going to let me go?
Corrin: Yes. I am not my father, Hinoka. The last thing I want is meaningless bloodshed. I will not kill you nor your remaining soldiers, but you must leave now.
Hinoka: No! Let me come with you, Brother/Sister! I knew you were on our side. I knew it! If I explain things to Ryoma, maybe we can end this war before things go any further!
Corrin: I can't let you do that. There's no telling what King Garon would do if he found out I allowed you to live. I know it won't be easy, but I need you to go far away from here. If you can just stay hidden until the war is over, everything will be OK. You don't have to die here. Please, choose to live.
Hinoka: How can I run...when everything I hold dear is on the brink of ruin...?

Camilla: My, what a spoiled child.

Hinoka: What?!
Camilla: Oh dear, how did my naughty blade get so close to your vulnerable little throat? If you move even a tiny bit, I may just slice it open like a ripe tomato.
Hinoka: You're insane! What do you think—
Camilla: Quiet, dear. You see, my brother/sister...who is not yours, by the way... Well, the sweet thing chose to spare your meaningless life. It's rather precious. I support his/her choice, of course. But only so long as you keep your end of the bargain. If you cause my darling brother/sister any harm... If you disobey him/her and refuse to run away... When you least expect it, my naughty little blade might just slip. Understood?
Hinoka: ...
Camilla: Aww, you always make that same frightening face when we speak. Keep that up, and you'll positively terrify Princess Sakura when you see her again.
Hinoka: Sakura is alive?!

Camilla: She is. And she will stay that way if you help me keep my brother/sister safe. That's MY brother/sister, darling. Not yours. In case you were keeping score. Now be a good girl and go hide somewhere safe like Corrin ordered you to. After all, how would young Sakura feel if she found out her sister was dead?
Hinoka: *sigh* Fine! You win. I will do as you say.
Camilla: Wonderful! I'm so glad we had this little chat. You know, now that I'm up close...your face is rather cute. Somewhat similar to Corrin's. Fully adorable and quite pretty.
Hinoka: What am I supposed to say to—
Camilla: Look at that! Absolutely lovely. You even blush like Corrin!
Corrin: Um...Camilla?
Camilla: Oh, my apologies. I got carried away. It seems we must be going. Farewell, princess of Hoshido.

Hinoka: Corrin, wait! You should know that Ryoma is waiting for you inside the castle. You said you wish to avoid bloodshed, and I'm choosing to believe you. So whatever happens...don't kill him. Please, find a way to spare my brother. We've already lost Mother. We couldn't bear to lose Ryoma too... If he fell, it would tear the heart out of our kingdom. I couldn't survive that.
Corrin: You have my word, Hinoka. I will not take Ryoma's life. I swear on the Yato of salvation that I will find a way to protect him.
Hinoka: Thank you, Corrin.
Corrin: One last thing... I know the awful things my kingdom has done to Hoshido and to your family. I know that because of those things, I can never hope for forgiveness. But when all this is over, and peace has been restored to our world... I dearly hope that one day we can all come together as siblings again.
Hinoka: Corrin...
Corrin: I'm sorry. Perhaps I should not have spoken. Feel free to cry and scream at me, and to tell me that wish can never come true. But even still, I won't let go of that dream. I just thought you should know.

Hinoka: ... Good-bye, Corrin.
Azama: Lady Hinoka! I am truly grateful that you escaped that ordeal with your life.
Setsuna: It's time to go, milady. If we stay here, they'll catch us for sure.
Hinoka: Yes. Let's get going. Brother/Sister... You're right about one thing. I cannot forgive the Nohrian army. They started this war, and they're winning it like cowards. They're all barbarians! Yet Corrin's dream of us all uniting as siblings in a world without war... His/her wish is so earnest, so pure, I can't help but believe in it too. Ryoma... Please don't hurt Corrin. Don't kill that lovely dream...@Intro 
Iago: Ah, Lord/Lady Corrin, I see you've returned to us safe and sound.
Corrin: Yes, Iago. We've just now made it back. It's good to be home. I haven't any time to waste, though. I'd like to report to Father right away.
Iago: Yes, of course. I'm sure you have much to discuss.
Corrin: By the way, what's with all the commotion around here? Did something happen?
Iago: There's a small rebellion in Cheve. Nothing your royal head should worry about. Our soldiers are preparing to quash it as we speak, before it gets out of hand.
Corrin: Another rebellion...
Iago: I'm sure King Garon can fill you in on the specifics if you so please. He's waiting for you in the reception room. I would advise against keeping him waiting.
Corrin: Excellent. I shall go immediately.

Iago: ... Hmph, little snake. Parading around the castle like nothing happened. I suppose the Macarath plan wasn't severe enough. Live and learn. I'll just have to make sure my next plan isn't so easy for him to slither out of.

Garon: Welcome back, child. I hear you have once again fulfilled my orders flawlessly. You're growing stronger right before my eyes. I am proud of you, my son/daughter.
Corrin: Thank you, Father.
Garon: But we must never rest on our laurels. Cheve requires immediate attention. Perhaps Iago already told you, but there's been a rebellion there. It's still small, but it won't remain so. Cheve is known for it's skilled knights. We cannot afford to underestimate their prowess on the battlefield. I'm sending our standing army to strike them down before this gets out of control. I'm trusting you, Corrin, to lead them to victory.
Corrin: You want ME to lead our standing army against the Chevois knights?!
Garon: That is correct.
Corrin: I'm honored by this opportunity, Father. I truly am. It's just... I don't have the necessary expertise to lead our troops against such a talented army. Surely there is someone else who would be better suited for this-
Garon: Are you defying me, boy/girl?! I am entrusting you with this mission because I believe you can succeed. Do not disappoint me, my son/daughter.
Corrin: But, Father... *sigh* Understood. I won't let you down. I will suppress the rebellion in Cheve.
Garon: I have high hopes for you, Corrin. You are dismissed.
Corrin: Father, wait! If I may have just a moment of your time, I have something to report.
Garon: Well? Out with it.
Corrin: Azura, the Nohrian princess who was taken by the Hoshidans, has returned to us.
Garon: What?!
Azura: Greetings, your majesty.
Garon: Azura...
Azura: Yes, milord. It is I.
Garon: Hmm, how unexpected. I never thought I'd see your face again. If you wish, you may go with Corrin to suppress the rebellion. Think of it as a chance to see more of your homeland.
Azura: ...
Garon: That is all. Bring back good news, my children.

Corrin: Father was acting... strangely. Even colder and more distant then usual. You're his long-lost daughter, and yet he barely spoke a word to you...
Azura: It's quite all right, Corrin. I didn't expect much.
Corrin: But he's your father! It's not right. He should be more... I don't know...
Azura: It's fine. Please don't worry about it. To be honest, I never thought I'd see him again. So in a way, the few words we exchanged exceeded my expectations.
Corrin: Azura...

Corrin: *sigh* I wonder what's really going on with Father. And Azura, for that matter... They've been separated for a lifetime, yet they barely spoke to each other. Something about it bothers me, though I can't put my finger on it. Ah well, I haven't time to dwell. I must prepare to depart with the army. Speaking of, I'm pretty sure this is where the soldiers gather to rest...
Hans: Prince/Princess Corrin! Milord/Milady!
Corrin: Hans! What do you want?
Hans: So it's true. I heard a rumor that our young prince/princess would be leading us. Congratulations on the honor, prince/princess Corrin.
Corrin: Enough with the flattery, Hans. Did you need me for something?
Hans: Yes, I've been awaiting your arrival. As a member of the standing army, I will be accompanying you to Cheve. I've been ordered to aid you in whatever task you you request of me.
Corrin: You? Helping me? And I'm to trust you even after you tried to kill me at the Bottomless Canyon?
Hans: A thousand apologies, milord/milady. I pray you can find it in your heart to forgive me. King Garon commanded I attack you so as to test your abilities. You should be pleased to know you far exceeded his expectations. Despite being a Hoshidan royal, you chose to side with our great kingdom of Nohr. You chose to remain with your Nohrian siblings and the man who raised you. Everyone at the castle was overjoyed. It greatly improved morale! I have every faith that you'll lead us well and to victory, milord/milady.
Corrin: ...

Corrin: So this is Cheve... Um... Odd. There doesn't seem to be any fighting at the moment.
Camilla: Perhaps they've returned to their safe houses for the night. We should do the same. We'll be better prepared for tomorrow if we get some rest. I know of an abandoned place nearby. Shall we head that way?
Corrin: Sounds great.
Takumi: Hello, brother/sister dear. I've been waiting for you.
Corrin: Huh?!

Camilla: Corrin!
Takumi: Damn, so close. I was aiming for your traitorous head.
Corrin: Takumi! Are you insane? You could have killed-
Camilla: Stay back, Corrin! It's too dangerous.
Takumi: Hiding behind your fake sister, are you? You've reached a new low. It matters not. I have an army of soldiers at my command.
Corrin: Stop this, Takumi. This doesn't concern you or Hoshido. I've come to peacefully suppress the rebellion in Cheve. Please, lay down your bow and return to Hoshido where you belong.

Scarlet: Bah, I knew you hounds would try to stop our righteous rebellion. All the more reason to stand our ground!
Corrin: I seem to have angered you, stranger. May I ask who you are?
Scarlet: The name's Scarlet. I'm part of the resistance here in Cheve. I've had my people tracking you ever since you left Nohr. Our Hoshidan allies were all too grateful to receive word of your whereabouts.
Camilla: Turning your back on the kingdom of Nohr. Tsk tsk. Quite the little traitor, aren't you?
Takumi: Traitor? Ha! Nohrian logic never ceases to amuse me. Scarlet did the same thing as Corrin, only SHE chose the right side. Joining the enemy and laying a trap for your own countrymen... Sound familiar?
Elise: Quiet, you! Don't say such awful things about my brother/sister, or you'll be sorry! Corrin didn't betray anyone! He's/She's the best person in the world!
Takumi: Ugh, who allowed this little brat to speak? How irritating.

Corrin: Elise!!
Takumi: The sight of that Nohrian brat makes me sick. Just die already. Scarlet and I won't stop until we free Cheve from Nohrian oppression. I plan to eliminate all who stand in our way. It's you against us, Corrin. Isn't that just what King Garon wants? For all of us to fight to the death?
Corrin: You're wrong, Takumi! If you could only see beyond your own hatred of me. If we could just talk things out, we could end this war peacefully. Fighting isn't the only way. How many more people must die before you see that?
Takumi: QUIET, NOHRIAN SCUM! I've had enough of your lies to last a lifetime. I'm going to kill you all and bring peace back to Hoshido! All troops, prepare for battle! Destroy the Nohrian army!!
Corrin: Takumi!
Takumi: I'll... kill you all... Y-yes... If I kill the Nohrians... surely the pain... the pain in my head will go away...

@Visit 
Child: You're from Nohr, aren't you?  Have you come to kill us? Huh? There's a battle going on? Oh, OK. I'll lock up tight. Thanks for the warning. In fact... take this. Might come in handy.

Boy: You're with the Nohrian army, eh? You enforcing a new curfew, or what? I'll just stay inside. I was about to hit the hay anyway. Here, take this before you go. 

Old Man: My family and I know full well it's useless to fight the Nohrian army. Here, have this. Anything to help end this war quickly. I only hope that King Garon eventually learns to rule with compassion... 

Girl: Visitors from the Nohrian army? This late? Oh dear, you must be ever so tired. Our rebels feel differently, but the people of Cheve are loyal to Nohr. Please believe me! Here, take this as proof of our loyalty. 

@Boss 
Orochi: Hee hee, you're afraid of my magic, aren't you? You should be.

Orochi: How could I lose?! My fortune said... I would win...today's battle...

Reina: I will grant you the most divine death if you'll let me hear you scream...

Reina: Such a pity... I was looking forward to watching...the light leave your eyes...

Scarlet: I won't let Nohr oppress my people any longer. For freedom!

Scarlet: Though I fall here...Cheve...will never bow down...

Takumi: I will not lose this time. Death to Nohr!

Takumi: It can't be... I'm so much stronger now! How could this...happen...

@Battle 
Charlotte: Ugh, these jokesters are a real pain in my rear. Why are they making such a racket this late at night? I need my beauty rest! I bet it's those Chevois jerks again. I've had it up to my ears with them. Can't they all just drop dead already?! Benny, I'm talkin' over here!
Benny: ...Yes, Charlotte. They're very loud.
Corrin: Um, excuse me, but are you two with the rebels? 
Charlotte: How DARE you! We're proud Nohrian soldiers here to defend our border! Geez, the nerve of some people. Comparing us to those savages! Ain't that right, Benny?
Benny: ... Sure.
Corrin: Ah, my apologies. I didn't realize you were Nohrian border guards. I'm Corrin, prince/princess of Nohr. I'm here to suppress this rebellion.

Charlotte: HUH?! You're a p-prince? Oh... Please forgive me, milord! Where ARE my manners?! I must have been bitten by an evil little fairy, hee hee. I'm so VERY sorry.
Benny: Please forgive my rude companion, milord. She's... eccentric. 
Corrin: No need to apologize. But what are you two doing here? Have you come to help us?
Benny: ... No milord. The rebels were being loud, so Charlotte wanted to kick their—
Charlotte: Benny, you silly-billy! Don't joke around with our rich prince friend here. OF COURSE we're here to help you. I'm a delicate little flower, but I know how to battle. Why bother living if we can't help our gorgeous prince in his time of need? Ain't that... I mean, isn't that right, my dear Benny? 
Benny: ... Sure.
Corrin: Well, you both look strong and able, so we'd be grateful for your help. All I ask is that you do all you can to spare the lives of our enemies. 
Charlotte: Of course, my prince! Little flowers like me are ill-equipped to kill anyway. Oh, goodness! I haven't properly introduced myself, have I? Silly me! I'm Charlotte, hee hee. This mammoth here is my totally platonic friend, Benny. It's nice to make your royal acquaintance! I'll do everything I can to make you happy.
Corrin: It's, um, nice to meet you as well. If you'll excuse me... 
Charlotte: ... SCORE! We're in the big leagues now, Benny my boy. I'm this close to landing the catch of a lifetime, heh heh!
Benny: ...Whatever you say, Charlotte. 

Ruffian: All of the soldiers are going at it pretty hard. Heh, all the better. A chaotic battle is the perfect time to take the villagers for all they're worth...

@End 
Takumi: NO! How could I lose... Not again... 
Corrin: It's over, Takumi. You can't keep fighting. Return to Hoshido with your troops. 
Takumi: Dammit. Why?! Why can't I beat you? You abandoned Hoshido... stood by and watched Mother die... betrayed us all... Why can't I have the justice I deserve?! 
Corrin: Takumi...
Takumi: As you said, I must retreat for now. But next time will be different. Next time HAS to be different... I'll never forgive you, Corrin... I won't rest until I've killed you myself. Some day soon, I'll make you pay for your sins. I swear on my mother's grave. 

Azura: ...That is not the Takumi I once knew. He's changed. 
Corrin: What do you mean? How so? 
Azura: Takumi never accepted me as his sister like the others, but he was always kind. He's not the type to raise his voice or threaten to hurt anyone. I can't explain it, but it's like he's a different person... 
Corrin: Do you think... it's because I betrayed Hoshido? Could that be the cause? 
Azura: To be honest, it's very likely you choosing Nohr played a part. But it still doesn't add up. He's so crazed and focused on Nohr's destruction... I can't help but wonder if that's really Takumi. 
Corrin: Huh? Of course that's Takumi. Who else would it-
???: AAAAAARGHHHH!!!
Corrin: Someone's in pain! What's going on over there?!
Azura: It's getting louder. Let's hurry!

Hans: HA HA HA!! Death to all who defy the great king of Nohr!
Boy: Please... no... Gaaaah... !!
Corrin: Hans! Stop this, now! What do you think you're doing?! 
Hans: Don't worry, milord/milady, I'm saving some of these rats for you. You're just in time to help us take out the trash that started this rebellion. 
Corrin: Are you insane!? We don't kill for the sake of killing! And these are innocent villagers! They're not even soldiers! 
Hans: Villagers are just soldiers who haven't grabbed a sword yet, heh heh. If we let them live, it'll come back to haunt us when we least expect it. 
Corrin: That's no excuse to take innocent lives. Stop this at once! As Prince/Princess of Nohr, I order you to drop your blade and let these people go!
Hans: Forgive me, milord/milady, but the orders come straight from Lord Garon. You may be a prince/princess, and our leader, but the King's word is law.
Corrin: F-father ordered you... to do this terrible thing...? 
Hans: He did. My apologies. Now if you'll excuse me, I'd like to wrap up here so we can get back home. Feel free to find somewhere quieter to rest until the dirty work is over, milord/milady.
Corrin: Hans, wait! Stop this madness! HANS!! 
Camilla: ... This is a truly horrid sight to behold, my darling brother/sister. I wish things could be different.
Corrin: Camilla... 
Camilla: I'm sorry, but I just found out the injured Hoshidan soldiers have already been killed. And that rebel... what was her name... Scarlet? Yes, the poor thing. They killed her in such a way... Well, they clearly meant to make an example of her.
Corrin: Gods, no... but Scarlet would have listened to us if we had just talked things out. Now we'll never have that chance... Why, Camilla? Who wants to live in a world where precious life is destroyed on a whim? Is this the world Father is building? Is this what I've been fighting for? 
Camilla: ... 
Corrin: I don't understand. I can never understand. How could Father do this? Where is the justice? The respect for life? The common decency?! Tell me, Camilla...
Camilla: Corrin... I know you're upset, but we need to report back to Father. He'll be angry if we keep him waiting. I'll summon a messenger. 
Corrin: Camilla! How can you be so calm at a time like this? 
Camilla: I'm sorry, Corrin. I don't have the answers you're looking for. I don't know why Father makes some of the decisions he makes. I never have. I do know that even as his blood kin, he wouldn't hesitate to kill me if I disobeyed. If you value your life, as I do... bury your feelings, at least for now. I know it's hard to do that while looking around at what's happening here... But I'm afraid it's your only option. If you'll excuse me, I must hurry. 
Corrin: Camilla... I'm sorry, but I can't do that. I can't accept that this is the Nohrian way. Something must be done...@Intro 
Ryoma: So this is Windmire...
Corrin: Yes. I'm finally back... It feels like it's been a lifetime. I never got to spend much time out here. I was always locked away. Still, being so close to the castle. It feels like...returning home. *sigh* It's strange, though. I haven't seen a soul since we arrived. It's so empty and quiet here. It's like the complete opposite of Hoshido.
Ryoma: Yes, it's hard to believe that this is the capital city of a major kingdom.
Silas: Believe it. I'm afraid that the city has been this way for quite some time now. Most regular folks just stay indoors. That way they won't be harassed by brigands or roving Faceless... That's just how it is in Nohr.
Ryoma: Is that so?
Silas: Yes, I'm afraid so. Remember the Woods of the Forlorn? How the trees arched and craned to soak up every possible bit of light? That's how us Nohrians must live as well. Food, resources and even light are limited. That's why our kingdom learned to fight and conquer other countries to prosper. We're like those trees, searching for the sun and trying to survive as best as we can.
Ryoma: That's terrible. Coming from the fruitful land of Hoshido, I had no idea... When this war ends, we'll have to see what we can do to share our resources.
Silas: You're...you're offering aid to a kingdom that you're at war with?
Ryoma: Of course. As the next of kin, I will naturally ascend the throne once I return to Hoshido. And my first priority as king will be revising our foreign policy toward Nohr. We have an abundance of food in Hoshido. More than we can even consume. Why should our neighbors suffer while we live in excess?
Silas: That's much appreciated, milord. You are an inspiration! I am prepared to give up my own life to fight for you. Because truly, fighting for you is as good as fighting for Nohr!
Ryoma: Thank you, Silas. I appreciate your support.
Corrin: Thank you both. It's things like this that keep my dream of peace between Nohr and Hoshido alive.
Shura: Well, what do we have here? Couple of travelers, are you?
Corrin: Who are you?
Shura: Never mind that. This is the bad part of town, kiddo. You shouldn't be walking around here by yourselves. After all, you're might run into some real bad characters. Not unlike...us. Heh, heh.
Corrin: Us? What are you talking about— Oh.
Takumi: Yep, we're surrounded. I don't think these are Nohrian soldiers, though...
Corrin: Argh! we don't have time for this!
Shura: The hell are you mumbling about? Now, we can make this nice and easy. Just give us all of your valuables, including that fancy-lookin' sword there...
Corrin: It looks like we have no choice. Get ready for battle, everyone!

@Boss 
Shura: It's nothing personal. But we've got to eat, you know? If only you'd given me that lovely sword...we could have avoided all this.

Shura: You guys...aren't mere travelers...are you?

@End 
Ryoma: You're the leader of this pathetic gang, are you not? Someone tie him up! The fewer people who know we're here, the better.
Shura: Geez, just kill me if you're going to kill me!
Azura: Hold on, Ryoma. I want to speak with this man. As a thief, he may know something about the secret passageway into the castle...
Ryoma: Hmm? What passageway?
Azura: It's something I've always remembered about the day I was kidnapped from Nohr... My captors stole me away from the castle through some kind of secret tunnel.
Ryoma: Is that so?
Shura: ...
Azura: It must have been made long ago for the purpose of infiltrating the castle unseen. I'm certain that King Garon and the Nohrian royals know nothing about it. If the tunnel is still there, it would benefit us greatly to make use of it. Do you know anything about this, thief?
Shura: Heh. I know a lot of stuff.
Azura: In that case, you must tell us. It is imperative that we reach the castle!
Shura: Or what—you'll kill me? Go ahead.
Azura: ...
Shura: Ha! You can't kill me, can you? You need the information too badly. Well... you just need to grease the wheels, kiddo.
Azura: What is it that you desire?
Shura: Ah, now we're talking! Money. And lots of it.
Ryoma: Very well. Money is no object for us. If your motivations are so base and pathetic, we can bury you in coin. On my honor as High Prince of Hoshido, you shall be paid at the first opportunity.
Shura: What did you say? The High Prince of Hoshido?
Ryoma: That's right. I'm Ryoma, heir to the throne of Hoshido. I shall ascend the throne as soon as this war ends. At that time I will grant you as much money as your pathetic mind can comprehend.
Takumi: Um, Ryoma? You sure you want to reveal your true identity to this guy? Not to mention promising him unlimited money...
Ryoma: He has information that could help save us invaluable time. We have no choice. Although, I suppose we haven't yet tried interrogation...
Shura: Milord, please accept my sincerest apologies. I didn't know who you were.
Ryoma: Excuse me?
Shura: The name's Shura. My family once served yours. I am a ninja of Kohga... a land that exists only in memory now.
Ryoma: Kohga! That's a name I haven't heard for many, many years.
Corrin: Hey, Takumi. Do you know what they're talking about? I've never heard of Kohga before.
Takumi: Yeah, Kohga was a small kingdom that bordered Mokushu. The place was known for its ninja dojos...until Mokushu burned it to the ground. Now that territory belongs to Mokushu and nothing remains of Kohga.
Corrin: That's terrible...
Shura: The day Kohga fell to Mokushu, almost all of my people were slaughtered. I was a child... Chased from my homeland and separated from the other survivors. Even as a refugee, I was denied entry to Hoshido. So I wound up in Nohr. I was exiled and alone. My only choice was to steal or die. You can guess what I chose. I've been here ever since, searching for others like me and trying to stay afloat...
Ryoma: I'm sorry for your troubles and that you weren't able to find safe haven in Hoshido. When this war is over, I will do all I can to help your people reclaim your homeland. There's just one condition. Join us! Join us and fight to make our world a better place!
Shura: Lord Ryoma... Anyone who would help my people claim what was taken from us has my support.
Ryoma: Excellent. Now, I believe Azura mentioned something about a secret passageway...
Shura: Of course. The tunnel.
Azura: Thank you for your help, Shura. I apologize for threatening you earlier.
Shura: Don't worry about it. I had it coming.
Azura: Well, I'm glad to have you on our side from now on. With your help, we just might gain the advantage we need to defeat King Garon.

Shura:  Ehem! Are you folks ready to get moving? We've kicked up enough dust that I'm sure some soldiers will be poking around soon. I'll lead you to the capital's underground. From there, we'll enter the secret tunnel. You're in for a wild ride, heh.

Ryoma: What...what is this place?
Shura: Heh. I told you. This is the REAL Nohr. The royals don't even know about this place. It's how the ordinary people around here get by.
Corrin: It's so...lively! There are so many shops and people. This is more like what I imagine when I think of a capital city.
Shura: Yeah, this is the true heart of Nohr. It's a place free from the prying eyes of the king's spies and soldiers. Here you can see a real glimpse of what it means to be a Nohrian! Only rich foreigners and idiots venture out into the streets above, heh.
Corrin: I see.
Ryoma: This is encouraging. I do see some poverty, but aside from a few differences, this could be Hoshido. I'd like to think our kingdoms have more in common than we thought.
Corrin: It makes me so happy to hear you say that, Ryoma. Maybe one day...our two kingdoms will coexist peacefully.
Flower Girl: Hi, hi! Want to buy a flower? I'll make you a special deal, heehee!
Shura: Not today, girlie. Bug off.
Flower Girl: Hey, that's mean! The least you could do is take a look! See? I have all different kinds! They're all so pretty and— *GASP*
Corrin: What's wrong? What's going on?

Elise: Corrin!
Corrin: Elise?!
Elise: Is it really you? What are you doing here?
Corrin: Elise...I could ask you the same question! You're a princess! What are you doing selling flowers in the market?
Elise: I...I can't talk about it here. I've got a place just around the corner. Come with me and we'll talk!
Corrin: You've got a...place? This really is some kind of alternate world!
Elise: Heehee! Don't worry—not all that much has changed. I'm just so happy to see you again! Father doesn't know I'm here, so you don't need to worry. Follow me!

Cassita: So you're this big brother/sister I keep hearing about. You're so handsome/lovely!
Corrin: Oh, um, thank you.
Elise: Corrin, this is my nanny, Cassita. She lives down here. I...I've been spending a lot of time with her since you left.
Cassita: She gets so lonely. Why don't you come home and visit more often, young man/lady?
Elise: Cassita! Please, that's embarrassing. Would you mind making some tea for everyone?
Cassita: I'm sorry, dear. Yes, of course. Be right back...
Corrin: So, Elise...
Elise: You want to know why I'm here, don't you? *sigh* Well, the castle just doesn't feel like home anymore.
Corrin: What do you mean?
Elise: A lot has changed since you left, and since the war started. Us siblings, well... We were all so upset over losing you, we could hardly look at each other anymore... Now Xander's always gone, Leo's left, and Camilla barely speaks. It's like the heart's been ripped from the castle. I get so lonely there. Camilla taught me about the passage that leads here. I've been using it to get away.
Corrin: I'm so sorry, Elise. But why are you selling flowers? Surely you don't need the money...
Elise: Oh, that's just to help out Cassita a little bit. I collect the flowers at the castle and bring them here to sell. It takes my mind off the whole situation, and I give the money to Cassita. Flowers make people happy! If I can't be happy, at least I can make others happy.
Corrin: There's that smile again. I've missed it terribly. When I saw you in Cyrkensia, you looked so worried...
Elise: Yes, well...I was with Father... He's been acting so strangely...
Corrin: Oh? Why do you say that?
Elise: He's been...scarier than usual. If someone crosses him, he kills them like it's nothing. He even...killed Zola. Right in front of me. It's more than that too. He always has this cold, empty expression on his face. I think even Xander is beginning to question him. Xander said Father is like a different person from the one he knew growing up.
Corrin: A different person... Xander said that?
Elise: Yep. He said Father wasn't nearly as scary when he was younger. He said Father wasn't cruel back then. That he loved showing his strength... But he had dignity and charm and didn't care for conquering other kingdoms. He told me that things started getting bad when Queen Arete died. I'm the daughter of someone who came after Arete, so I never got to meet her.
Corrin: I've never even heard of Queen Arete. I've only heard Xander talk about his mother, Queen Katerina.
Cassita: Oh, my! Now THOSE names bring back some memories. Queen Arete! And Queen Katerina, too. I haven't thought of her in ages! Such lovely ladies!
Elise: Cassita! Were you listening to our whole conversation? Yeesh!
Cassita: I'm sorry, honey, but your tea has been ready for ages! I couldn't help but overhear a few little words here and there...
Corrin: It's all right, ma'am. I'm curious, though. Did you know Queen Arete or Queen Katerina?
Cassita: Oh, yes. I worked for both of them for a time. Both fine ladies, just fine! I remember King Garon was really broken up when queen Katerina died. Said he'd never marry again! Hah! That changed the minute he met Lady Arete. She had such an amazing voice. Her singing would fill the castle. And she was so beautiful! She looked an awful lot like your friend there, actually. You know—the one with the blue hair!
Ryoma: Well, that makes sense. Azura was born in Nohr. She's probably King Garon's daughter with Queen Arete.
Elise: WHAT?! I have another sister I didn't even know about?
Azura: Oh, um... I... ...
Corrin: Azura?
Cassita: Wowee! This is the most exciting teatime I've had in ages! Let's take it to the next level with some cookies, shall we?
Azura: I'm sorry, but we really must be going. Thank you very much for the tea and your hospitality.
Cassita: Oh, that's too bad. I wish you could stay longer.
Elise: I...I still can't believe I have another sister! I wish I'd known earlier... Big sister! I'm so glad I met you!
Azura: Yes... It was nice meeting you as well.
Corrin: Hmm...@Intro
Corrin: Brrr... It's much colder here than in the forest. The Ice Tribe lives up to its name.
#avatar-M
Felicia: Too true! The colder it gets, the closer we are. It won't be long now. My word, isn't this cold air marvelous? It really puts a spring in your step!
Corrin: "Marvelous" is not exactly the word I had in mind... I can hardly feel my fingers anymore. They'll be frozen before long.
Felicia: Oh! Really?! I'm so sorry, your liege. I had no idea you were suffering. Um, how about we try running. Maybe that will warm you up! Come on, everyone! Let's run!
#avatar-F
Jakob: The colder it gets, the closer we are. It won't be long until we arrive. The cold air is quite refreshing! I rather enjoy it, don't you?
Corrin: "Enjoy" is not exactly the word I would use. I can hardly feel my fingers anymore. They'll be frozen before long.
Jakob: Are you that cold, milady? I'm so sorry, I didn't realize. Perhaps we should run. It might help warm you up, and it will get us there quicker. I shall take the lead. Here I go!
Elise: He's/She's so fast! FELICIAAA!/JAKOOOB! WAIT FOR MEEE!
Silas: Lady Elise, slow down! You mustn't get ahead of the group!
#avatar-M
Corrin: They're gone! This won't end well... Woah!
#avatar-F
Corrin: They're gone! Woah!

@Intro
Corrin: The snow is really coming down all of a sudden. Is everyone OK?
Silas: I believe so. But...it looks like we've been separated from the others.
Corrin: Damn, you're right! We have to find them and quickly!
Silas: Don't worry, Corrin. Felicia/Jakob knows this area well, so they should be fine. Honestly, I'm more concerned about the two of us... We must keep pushing forward before we freeze to death.
Corrin: Very true. We better hurry before the path Felicia/Jakob showed us is covered in snow.

Corrin: It's f-freezing...and now the snow's so thick I can hardly see anything. Felicia/Jakob said it gets colder the closer you get to the Ice Tribe village. We must be on the right track. Right, Silas?
Silas: So it would seem.
Corrin: We must carry on. But my mind is...suddenly...hazy... And I can't...feel my...legs...
Silas: Corrin!!
Corrin: S-sorry, Silas. I'm fine, really. I just...fell a little. No big deal... Are you sleepy? I'm suddenly...so very...so very sleepy...
Silas: Corrin, no! Please, stay with me! You must not fall asleep!
Corrin: I'll get up soon, Elise. Just five more...minutes... Xander can wait... ... ...
Silas: Corrin? Corrin!
???: Halt! Who goes there?!
Silas: What the...?

Corrin: Arghh... Whaaa...
Silas: Corrin! Thank goodness... For a while there, I thought I'd lost you.
Corrin: Silas? What happened? I remember falling, and then everything went black. More importantly, where are we?
Kilma: You are safe now, young traveler. Welcome to my village. I am Kilma, leader of the Ice Tribe.
Corrin: Kilma... Thank you for your kindness. It would seem you saved my life. My name is Corrin. I am the second prince/princess of the kingdom of N—
Silas: Corrin! You should rest. NOW. You've had a long day.
Corrin: Silas?
Kilma: Is something the matter?
Silas: My apologies, Kilma. Corrin just woke up—his/her mind is still foggy. Perhaps you would allow him/her to rest a bit more before we resume the introductions?
Kilma: ...Yes, of course. I'll go prepare something warm to drink. Please excuse me.
Silas: Phew...that was a close call.
Corrin: Silas, what was all that about? I feel fine.
Silas: Don't forget yourself, my lord/milady. It could prove deadly.
Corrin: ...
Silas: I know all of this is new to you, but don't forget we came to suppress a rebellion. That means the Ice Tribe is disgruntled with the actions of the Kingdom of Nohr. In other words, we are their enemy. To identify yourself as a Nohrian prince/princess, especially while in a weakened state... It's simply a bad idea, old friend.
Corrin: Sound advice, Silas. You're right. I forgot myself for a moment.
Silas: Understandable for one who barely made it back to the land of the living. But we must exercise caution, or neither of us will ever see home again.
Corrin: There's such a fine line between friend and foe, war and peace. It's all so...gray.
Silas: Such is the world we live in, I'm afraid. I must say, you truly have a remarkable knack for getting into trouble. I never thought this is how we'd breach the village. What should we do now?
Kilma: A fresh pot of hot tea, as promised. This should help clear your head.
Corrin: Th-thank you very much.
Kilma: You know, I usually would not allow strangers into my village like this. However, I made an exception for you two. It's that sword you carry, Corrin. That golden blade looks just like that of the hero of legend... It is said the one who wields that blade is destined to save the world.
Corrin: My Yato... A legendary sword... Well, it's a nice thought.
Kilma: As you can imagine, I simply couldn't abandon you after I saw that blade. Who knows, maybe you are the hero the world has been waiting for. If so, then there's a chance we will one day break free from those cruel Norhians.
Corrin: ...
Kilma: If you'll excuse me, I believe I've babbled on about old Ice Tribe legends long enough. Ah, it looks like my daughter has finally arrived. Allow me to introduce you...
Flora: Corrin? Is that you?!
Corrin: What the... Flora?! What are you doing here?
Flora: I could ask you the same thing. And I shall. Why are you here, my liege?
Kilma: My liege?
Silas: This isn't good...
Elise: Brother/Sister! Yaaay, I knew you'd make it!
Corrin: Elise!
Elise: What a relief! I was so worried once I realized we had gotten separated.
#avatar-M
Felicia: F-Flora?! What are YOU doing here?! You told me you were going to hold down the fort while I was gone...
Flora: I changed my mind. Why did you and the others follow me here?
Felicia: Follow you? No way! I had no idea you were even here.

#avatar-F
Jakob: Flora?! Why are you here? Didn't you agree to hold down the fort in my absence? Don't tell me Felicia is here too...
Flora: No, she's not. I came alone. Why did you and the others follow me here?
Jakob: Nonsense. Whyever would we follow you? I didn't even know you were here.
Elise: Yeah, that's right! We got here all by ourselves! We can't go back until we suppress the Ice Tribe rebellion like Father ordered!
Kilma: WHAT?!
Silas: Elise, why would you say that?!
Elise: Huh? What do you mean? It's not a secret. Wait...doesn't suppress mean... You know, that we ask them to please stop rebelling? And maybe eat dinner together?
Silas: Elise, you don't understand. It's not that easy.
Kilma: All has become clear as ice. You monsters tricked me into helping you so so you could infiltrate my village.
Corrin: I promise you, that was not our intention.
Kilma: Don't play dumb. Such childish games do not befit a prince/princess, even one of Nohr. I know how you Nohrians operate. Well, so be it. Flora! You know what must be done.
Flora: Yes, Father. I will sound the alarm right away. The Nohrians have infiltrated our village. They must be expelled immediately. And permanently.

#avatar-M
Felicia: Flora! H-How could you say such a dreadful thing? Fighting was supposed to be a last resort! Can't we talk this out? Or at least try to?
Flora: Felicia, dear sister... You've always been ignorant to the ways of the Nohrians. War is the only language they understand. Side with them and you'll pay the price!

#avatar-F
Jakob: Flora! How could you say that? Do you really intend to attack Corrin?
Flora: I have no choice, Jakob. You wouldn't understand. The Nohrians... War is the only language they understand. Side with them and you'll pay the price!
Silas: That could have gone better... Be on your guard, Corrin!

@Battle 
Kilma: The time has come to defeat the Nohrian army. Inform the villagers!
Silas: Sounds like Kilma is dead set on calling in reinforcements from the village. Maybe if we can get to them first, we can dissuade them from fighting...

Kilma: Did you truly manage to melt the lake's ice with the power of Dragon Veins? Well, it was all for nothing. This sacred land is blessed with divine protection. By the power of the Ice Dragon, our lake will freeze once more!

Odin: The darkness is calling...whispering... SEETHING. It's saying...hmmmm... Ahhh, I understand. The shadows within say our foes are unwitting yet dangerous. So it has been decided by the treacherous hand of fate. We have no choice... We must use the darkness swarming inside me to claim the golden glow of victory!
Niles: You're a damn weirdo, Odin. But you know that, don't you? In any case, I'm not going to let you take all the glory for yourself.
Corrin: Uh, what's going on over there? Who are you?
Odin: Didn't you hear me? About the darkness?! Sheesh, some people are so rude. Well, it can't be helped. Who am I, you ask...
Odin: I am none other than... Odin Dark! I am the keeper of darkness, chosen protector of the youngest Nohrian prince!
Corrin: So...you're Leo's retainer? And he sent you here to help me?
Niles: Yes, that would be the sane version of what Odin just said. My name is Niles. By royal decree of Lord Leo, I am here to serve you.
Corrin: Serve me? I would rather you fight at my side as a friend and equal...
Niles: ...
Odin: Don't worry about Niles. He's always like this. I suspect he's bitter that the dark spirits chose to inhabit me and not him... But back to the matter at hand. Don't be afraid, Lord/Lady Corrin... I will now use my powers to expel those who wronged you from this world. Ahh...the power! My fell hand awakens... It longs for the blood of our foes! I must annihilate them all, or the curse will surely—
Corrin: Woah, there! Take it easy. Let's all just calm down, OK?
Odin: What, why? But my sword...the curse... What's the holdup?
Niles: Is there a problem? When can we start inflicting pain?
Corrin: Um, no offense... I'm happy you came to help and all, but you're creeping me out. Besides, I would like to settle this dispute with as little bloodshed as possible.
Niles: So we can inflict pain so long as it doesn't cause bloodshed? Interesting challenge...
Corrin: No. Just...no.
Odin: But I prepared at least a dozen torturous moves just for today! I named them all, too. They might be my best names yet...
Corrin: I'm very sorry for the, um, inconvenience, but I'm going to have to put my foot down.
Niles: Well, if it's an order from my liege's royal sibling, I am obliged to obey. I may appear somewhat despicable, but I have the utmost loyalty for Lord Leo.
Odin: I, too, am a bastion of loyalty, despite the dark forces beckon me from beyond. It will be hard to hold back my true power, but for you, I'll see what I can do.
Corrin: Thank you, gentlemen. Now let's finish this quickly!

@Visit 
Child: Whoa, a soldier! What's goin' on? Huh? Don't leave my house today? Well, if you say so. I'll tell my family.

Old Woman: The N-Nohrian army?! Leave me alone! I have nothing of value, I promise! I know, I'll lock myself inside. Oh, this is just awful. I hate being cooped up...

Old Man: So you've come at last. Scoundrels! Well, if you're going to kill me, get on with it! Huh? You're not going to kill me? I'm so confused... I'm locking up now. Don't come knockin' again, y'hear?

Boy: Ahhh! The N-Nohrian army is here?! But no... we're not ready to fight yet! Look, we surrender, OK? You win! We will not fight. Please spare my family!

@Boss 
Flora: As daughter of the Ice Tribe's leader, it is my duty to protect our people!

Flora: Argh! J-just finish it, why don't you? No point in showing mercy now...

Kilma: We are a proud people, and we shall not yield to the Kingdom of Nohr!

Kilma: You didn't take my life when you had the chance... Why? Tell me why!

%Corrin,Flora
Flora: I'm sorry, Corrin. Not for my actions, but for this unfortunate circumstance. Milord/Milady, as your retainer, I know this is tantamount to treason. But my family... My tribe... We simply cannot bow down to Nohrian rule.
Corrin: Flora... No need to apologize. I am the last person ever to begrudge you for your loyalties, my friend. Still, I shall do all I can to suppress this rebellion, albeit in my own way.

%Felicia,Flora
Flora: Felicia, my foolish sister. Did you really think this rebellion could be solved by a few pretty words?
Felicia: I'm no fool, Flora! You're the one who wants to fight without hearing us out! That in itself is a betrayal of pride and morality our tribe holds so dear!
Flora: You really don't understand, do you? This goes beyond words. Don't you realize, all of our time in that castle was... I mean, it was just...
Felicia: What are you saying, sister?
Flora: Forget it, there's no point telling you now, after all that's happened. Let's get on with it. You may be my sister, but I won't go easy on you!

%Jakob,Flora
Flora: Jakob... It's good to see you, though I wish it was under better circumstances.
Jakob: Flora... When I left you at the castle, I never dreamed I'd find you here. Here with your blade raised in anger against he/she who you swore to protect. I know the difficulty of your situation, but that doesn't excuse your actions. I'm afraid I have no choice to settle this matter with force.
Flora: Jakob... In the b-beginning, I never swore my allegiance. I refused. After all, we were little more than hostages. Taken as children... All to prevent this from happening, to stop the Ice Tribe from rebelling. I often thought of running away, but I never did. I stayed...because of you...
Jakob: Flora...
Flora: I don't want or need your pity, Jakob! Let's finish this!

%Corrin,Kilma
Kilma: I was a fool to allow myself to be deceived by appearances. You are not the legendary hero after all. What a shame.
Corrin: I make no excuses for what my people have done to yours, Kilma. No matter how this ends, all I ask is that you listen to what I have to say.

%Felicia,Kilma
Kilma: Felicia, my dear child. I never thought I'd see this day. Taking up arms against your own people, siding with the enemy...
Felicia: Father, please don't say such things! This is the last thing I ever wanted.
Kilma: It pains me to raise a hand against my precious daughter... But alas, this is how it must be for the good of the tribe. Gods, forgive me.

@End 
Corrin: The battle is over, at least for now. Thanks to your valiant efforts, we managed a victory without taking any lives. Elise, will you please attend to the injured, regardless of what side they fought on?
Elise: Leave it to me! I'll have them all healed up before you can say "Elise is the best!"

Kilma: The Nohrian army fought a battle without murder or brutality? How is this possible? What are you playing at, Prince/Princess of Nohr?
Corrin: This is no game, Kilma. I don't believe in killing for the sake of killing. Nor am I inclined to repay kindness with violence. I still owe you my life, after all.
Kilma: Even though we attacked you first, while you were weak, you still showed mercy...
Corrin: I would love nothing more than for this day to mark a turning point, for all of us. One fueled not by force, nor control, but by mutual trust. I know it will take time. It won't be easy, but in my heart I know it's the only way. When my Father ordered me to quell this rebellion, I knew I had to do it my way. Whatever the consequences, I want to build a world we can all live in peacefully.
Silas: Could it be...you really did intend to stop this rebellion with words, as Elise said? I would say it must be hereditary, but Elise isn't actually your blood relative.
Kilma: Wait, then are you not a prince/princess of Nohr after all?!
Flora: Lord/Lady Corrin! Is this true?! I don't believe it!
Corrin: It is true, Flora. I found out during my brief time in Hoshido. I am not King Garon's true son/daughter, nor this kingdom's true prince/princess. But I wish nothing more than to end this war, for all of us and for all kingdoms. That is why I must do all I can to make Father recognize me as his son/kin again.
Flora: I had no idea. I seem to have missed a lot after leaving the Northern Fortress...
Kilma: ...
Corrin: Forgive me, Lord Kilma. I know what I'm about to ask is a somewhat selfish request. But I must ask all the same... Will you and your tribe agree to halt your rebellion? In return, I promise to do all I can to give your people back your autonomy. I will not rest until the Ice Tribe regains the freedoms Nohr so cruelly stripped away. But for this to happen, I must first ask for your cooperation.
Kilma: ... You are full of surprises, young prince/princess. I never thought I would say this, but you may count on our full cooperation.
Corrin: Kilma! I...thank you! I swear to you, you won't regret this.
Kilma: There's a fierce kindness in your eyes, a mysterious calmness in your words. I'm afraid I can't help but take you at your word, Lord/Lady Corrin. If King Garon had said those same words, it would have made no difference. But you... You are a different story. I can't help but believe in you. Perhaps... Perhaps you are the hero that will save this world after all.
Corrin: Haha, I'm not so sure about that last part, but I thank you for your trust.
Flora: Lord/Lady Corrin, can you ever forgive me? I know I betrayed my oath to serve you and ran away from the castle, but...
Corrin: No need to apologize, Flora. You did nothing wrong. It was wrong of the Nohrian kingdom to corner you like that, especially as a child. I will, as ever, speak highly of you to Father.
Flora: Your kindness knows no bounds, Lord/Lady Corrin. Thank you. Though I previously refused to do so, I here and now swear my fealty to you.
Corrin: Haha, no need to go overboard, Flora. Without you and Felicia, I would have died of loneliness in the Northern Fortress. You have more than proven your fealty to me, as well as your friendship.
Flora: But that was all just a big... I mean, that whole time... ... I guess it doesn't matter now anymore. From now on, I promise to be truly loyal to you.
Corrin: I'm not sure I fully understand, but the sentiment is much appreciated.

Elise: We're done healing everyone, Corrin! Easier done than said, heehee.
Corrin: Thank you, Elise. And you too, Felicia/Jakob. You both did well today.
Silas: Indeed, we all did! Now all we need is for King Garon to recognize your victory...
Elise: Oh, I forgot about that part! What are we going to do? You were supposed to stop the rebellion on your own, but we ruined everything. We've got to come up with some great excuse to tell Father or he'll be angry!
Corrin: Ugh, I had forgotten that part too. Well, I'll consider my options on the way home.
Kilma: Are you leaving already? Can I not persuade you to stay and rest a while?
Corrin: I'm afraid time is of the essence, Lord Kilma. Next time we meet...I dearly hope the world will be a better place.
Kilma: I have every confidence it will be, Lord/Lady Corrin. May the gods protect you on your perilous journey toward peace.

Old Man: Lord/Lady Corrin, please wait! Us villagers wish to thank you. You went out of your way to prevent us from engaging in a futile battle. Though our soldiers tried to defeat you, you still protected and even healed us. Take this as a token of our appreciation. Please, I insist!@Intro 
Corrin: Ugh, this forest is so dark and dismal... The trees are blocking the whole sky. I can't even see the moon from here. It feels as though we've been walking in darkness forever.
Ryoma: They say this is the darkest region in the kingdom of Nohr. Which is precisely why we're here. Most Nohrians would have a hard time tracking us through this area. Once we make our way through the forest, we'll be just outside the capital.
Corrin: Are you sure we're on the right track? I'd hate to get lost in here.
Felicia: Don't worry, Lord/Lady Corrin. I know my way around this place pretty well. Flora and I used to camp in this area in the summers. Between the two of us, we had every nook and cranny mapped out. Oh...Flora. *sob*
Corrin: Felicia...I'm so sorry.
Felicia: I'm sorry...I need a moment.
Corrin: Of course. Take all the time you need. I can't imagine what you're going through.
Felicia: Thank you, Lord/Lady Corrin. I know we're all suffering in one way or another. I'm just trying to hold it together.
Corrin: We're all here for you, Felicia.

Corrin: So, Ryoma... I know Felicia said she knows her way around here... But it feels like we've been walking in circles for hours.
Ryoma: Hmm? I don't think so. It probably just feels that way because it's so dark.
Corrin: I hope you're right. Oh, wait. There's something different.
Ryoma: What is it?
Corrin: I...I don't know. It's over there. Something glowing...
Ryoma: Is it some sort of animal?

Corrin: No. It's giving off an unnatural light.
Ryoma: I don't like the looks of this...

Ryoma: Do you think they could be more of Iago's optical illusions?
Corrin: I don't know, but I'd rather not find out. Let's get out of here!
Ryoma: It's too late—we're surrounded. Let's hope these...things...aren't hostile.
Corrin: I...I think this place is a graveyard.

Corrin: Faceless! They're everywhere! We're in trouble, Ryoma—I can barely see anything, let alone defend myself!
Ryoma: There's something strange about these Faceless. It's almost like they're...waiting. Usually they attack anything in sight without hesitation. Someone must be controlling them!
Corrin: You may be right, but knowing that will do us little good when we can't see anything!
???: Oh, Corrin. Have you really lost your night eyes so quickly? Hoshido has made you soft.
Corrin: Who's there?!
???: That's quite an attitude to take with a voice in the dark, is it not? See for yourself. Can you still not see me...
Leo: even when I'm right next to you?

Leo: Nohrian law is blunt on the subject of traitors. There is only one punishment... The sentence is death.

Corrin: Leo!
Leo: Yes, Brother/Sister. I'm here to settle the score once and for all. No more running or hiding. It's time to answer for your betrayal! I've even gone to the trouble of trapping you in a proper graveyard. After all, the brother/sister I once loved is dead. It's only fitting.
Takumi: That's some big talk from a reedy little bookworm! We won't back down until we defeat your father, King Garon. Why don't you come down here and fight us face-to-face?
Leo: You're quite confident for a coward who shoots his foes with arrows from afar. If you think you can best me, so be it. Let's see how long you can survive my game. You Hoshidans think you're a ray of light in the world, but you're all hypocritical fools. True power comes from a heart forged in darkness!
Takumi: Gah! My feet—they're stuck! Aaaugh!
Corrin: Takumi? What happened?
Sakura: Ow! Eyaaah!
Hinoka: Ughhh...I'm getting so...tired. So...drained...
Ryoma: It's the swamp! Everyone, get out of the water right now!
Corrin: Strange, it doesn't seem to be affecting me...
Leo: Hmm. So your connection to Nohr hasn't been completely severed, I see... No matter. There will be no escape today. In the dark forest, where even the moon and stars dare not shine... All sources of light shall be swallowed up in my darkness, because I will it so. Hoshidans, who have spent all their days in the light, can't survive without it. I'm surprised it didn't work against you too. This only goes to show you were meant to side with us. You chose wrong, Brother/Sister. You chose the light and left those who love you most to rot in the dark, traitor!!
Corrin: Please, Leo! Stop this! I don't wish to fight you, Brother!
Leo: Ugh, how annoying. I would love nothing more than to best you in battle. Xander always lavished you with praise while ignoring my accomplishments... Camilla was the same. She...she always loved you more than me! You were Xander's perfect little toy soldier and Camilla's dress-up doll! I've always resented you for that, Brother/Sister. I've been keeping all this in for so long, but it doesn't matter anymore. Had I known you'd betray us, I wouldn't have bothered being intimidated by you!!
Corrin: Do...do you really mean that? Have you always resented me? I thought...we were so close. Did you never truly love me? Tell me!
Leo: ...I'm not going to give you the satisfaction of answering that. I'm just going to kill you now.
Corrin: Leo, no!

@Boss 
Odin: Out of darkness, I spring into action. Fear me! I am Odin Dark!

Odin: Urgh! Back into the darkness I go...

Niles: Say, that’s a nice face you’ve got there. Would be a shame if someone were to slash it. Let’s have some fun, shall we?

Niles: Oof. That’s enough of my own medicine for today. I’ll just slip away now…

Leo: I hope you like the dark. I'm about to drown you in it...

Leo: No...I can't fall like this... Not until I prove myself...

%Corrin,Odin 
Odin: Halt! I am Odin Dark—warrior chosen by the darkness. It’s been a while, hasn’t it, young Corrin? It’s a shame that I will have to destroy you now, but orders are orders. If only you had stayed true to our glorious and noble kingdom...
Corrin: What are you talking about?
Odin: Oh. That’s not the reaction I expected. Do you not remember the darkest and most mysterious of heroes?
Corrin: Um, sorry. I have a really bad memory. REALLY bad. By the way, what’s with the whole "warrior chosen by darkness" thing?
Odin: Yes, well...I am the night! I am the...er... I can’t do this.
Corrin: Then throw down your weapon! There’s no need for us to fight!
Odin: No! Must...tame...the darkness... Let’s just get this over with! I can’t control my powers around you...

%Corrin,Niles 
Niles: So, you’re the little thorn in my master’s side, are you? Very well. If he wants you dead, who am I to argue?
Corrin: I still can’t believe it. We lived as brothers/sister and brother...
Niles: Oh, yes. The suffering on your face is simply delicious. Now, let’s see what happens when you have a few more holes...
Corrin: You’re sick!
Niles: Oh, please. This is war. This is my job. I’m good at what I do. I’ll try to make this painless so you can die in peace. Deal?

%Corrin,Leo 
Leo: Ah, so you made it all the way here. I suppose that means I'll have to kill you with my own hands.
Corrin: Leo, be honest. Did you really mean what you said earlier? Have you...have you really always hated me? Because...I've always loved you.
Leo: There's no point in answering that. It's all over now.
Corrin: Leo...

@End 
Leo: Ugh... Go ahead. Do what you must.
Corrin: No. Accept your defeat, and we can end this together.
Leo: Don't you see? This can't ever end! Not until one of us is dead.
Corrin: No! I can't accept that. There was no need for our kingdoms to be at war in the first place. This is all Father's doing, Leo! He's fooled us all!
Leo: You've always been naive, Corrin. This is war! This is life and death! Only the strong survive! If Nohr bows down, we'll lose everything. Our land and our people...our culture and our legacy... Our families...even our lives. I won't let Hoshido take anything more from us! I won't back down!
Corrin: Am I the one who's naive? Or is it you, blind to Garon's lust for power?
Leo: Ha! As though the Hoshidans have never ended a life to serve their own purpose. They would slit your throat in an instant if they thought it served them.
Corrin: That's not true! From the moment I arrive in Hoshido, I was treated as if I belonged. The same goes for Azura. King Garon is mad with power, and he must be stopped!

Leo: Huh?!
Corrin: I hate to do this, but... Don't move an inch, Leo, or I will be forced to end you.
Leo: Heh, I don't doubt your ability to hurt me, dear brother/sister. Go on. Kill me. End this battle, just as you wish.
Corrin: ...
Leo: What are you waiting for? I'm not helpless, even in this position. I could kill you right now with a spell. Make your move.
Corrin: No...
Leo: Why? What's wrong with you?
Corrin: Me? What's wrong with you? Why haven't you cast your spell?
Leo: Because...
Corrin: Leo, I know you. We grew up together. I know you've got a good, kind heart.
Leo: Shut up!
Corrin: No, listen...
Leo: I told you to shut up! What makes you think you understand anything about me?!
Corrin: Because we're family, Leo. Regardless of my true lineage, I'll always think of you as my little brother.
Leo: Hmph.
Corrin: I won't ever give up on you. You said you'd kill me...but I'm still here. If you really wanted me dead, you could have done it a dozen times by now.
Leo: ...
Corrin: I believe in our bond, Leo. I have to believe you wouldn't really kill me. As one who betrayed Nohr, maybe I don't have the right to say this, but... I don't want to fight against you, or anyone in Nohr, but especially my family. I still love you, Brother. That will never, ever change.
Leo: *sigh*

Leo: I...I'm sorry, Brother/Sister. I lied to you.
Corrin: Leo, it's OK.
Leo: I never hated you. Not...not ever. I was jealous at times, sure. You were always Xander's favorite. And Camilla...she always doted on you so...
Corrin: I understand. There's no need to say anything more. But, Leo...please. Please join us, Brother! Help us put an end to this war.
Leo: You're asking me to betray my father. And Xander. And everyone else... How can I do that? I can't hurt my siblings! I won't do it!
Corrin: I...I can't answer that. Only you can. I'll admit, it's a tough road to tread.
Azura: You'll have to find your own reasons for joining us. We can't give you the answers. But I do have something that can help you...clarify your thoughts.
Leo: What do you mean?
Azura: Take this. Look deep inside it. You might find it helpful.
Leo: Huh? What is it? It looks like some kind of crystal.
Azura: It's...not something I can explain. You'll just have to try it for yourself.
Leo: I see... Understood.

Leo: So you're Azura. You were originally a princess of Nohr, right? Does that mean... Are we related?
Azura: Yes, I am Azura. But I'm afraid we're not related.
Corrin: But I thought—
Azura: I'm afraid I haven't been able to share everything about my past quite yet...
Leo: Does that mean you're not originally from Nohr after all? Why are you being mysterious? Why can't you just come out with it?
Azura: I assure you—I have my reasons. But I have given you everything you need to find the answers. That's all I can do.
Leo: Very well.
Corrin: Leo, what are you going to do?
Leo: I don't know. I'm not ready to completely forgive you for betraying Nohr and tearing our family apart. There are a lot of questions that I need answered.
Corrin: I see.
Leo: To be honest, all of this may be moot. None of you realize how strong Xander has become.
Corrin: Leo, I've sparred with Xander dozens of times. I know he's strong, but I'm ready.
Leo: Hah! You mean your friendly little tickling contests up on the roof? You do know he always went easy on you, right? You...know that, right? Xander means business now, Corrin. He is not to be taken lightly. You may have stopped me and my small army of Faceless today... But I doubt the lot of you could defeat Xander all at once.
Corrin: He can't be...THAT powerful... Can he?
Azura: What can we do, Leo?
Leo: Truly, there may be nothing you can do. But I know one thing you can TRY. Make a pilgramage to Notre Sagesse.
Ryoma: Notre Sagesse...land of the philosophers? What possible benefit lies there?
Leo: Notre Sagesse is home to the Rainbow Sage. I don't know who he is or what he does, but Xander visited him ages ago. Upon returning, he put on display of powers the likes of which I've never seen.
Corrin: I hate to ask...but how far away is Notre Sagesse from here?
Ryoma: It's more than halfway back to Hoshido, I'm afraid. The most direct route would take us back through Cyrkensia. And then we'd still have a lengthy boat ride ahead of us...
Corrin: Then it's hopeless. We've come too far together to backtrack like that.
Leo: What will you do? I assure you that facing off against Xander as you stand would be akin to suicide.
Corrin: I suppose I have no choice. I'll have to go to Notre Sagesse alone.
Takumi: Are you serious, Corrin? Please don't tell me you believe this clown.
Corrin: Takumi, I've known Leo my whole life. I believe he's telling the truth about Xander. So, even though this is a setback...I believe it gives us the best chance at victory.
Takumi: Unbelievable.
Corrin: I'm sorry. I'm not asking anyone else to come with me.
Takumi: Who said anything about not going with you? I just want to make sure you think long and hard about this.
Corrin: But...
Hinoka: We're all with you, Corrin. Right, everyone?
Sakura: Of c-course!
Corrin: Really, I can make this pilgrimage alone...
Ryoma: Nonsense! We stand with you, Corrin.
Azura: Did you really have any doubt? We will all follow your lead.
Corrin: Thank you, everyone. I'm...humbled to have your confidence and support. Especially you, Ryoma. To think...you could be king right now...
Leo: Very well. I suppose if you're all determined to do this...I shouldn't hold this back. Please, take this.
Corrin: What is it, Leo? A book?
Leo: Yes, a warp book. It has the power to transport you instantly to Notre Sagesse. Consider it an even trade for the item Azura gave me.
Corrin: What?! That can't be possible, can it?
Leo: Oh yes, Corrin. Believe it. This is why I've always put my faith in books rather than blades. Given the size of your party, I'd say this book has the power for ONE round trip. So, don't push your luck with it...
Corrin: One round trip should be plenty. Thank you, Leo!
Leo: Yes, well...I wasn't sure that helping you would be the right decision. But after seeing how determined you are... I suppose it just seems right. You've always been a bit reckless, haven't you?
Corrin: Thank you, Leo.
Leo: It's time for me to go now. We'll see each other again, I'm sure of it.

Corrin: He smiled! It's been so long... since I saw that smile. How bittersweet.
Ryoma: I can imagine. Thank you for keeping a steady head throughout all of this. You're a natural-born leader, Corrin.
Corrin: Thank you, Ryoma. I'm just glad I didn't have to kill my own brother. As for you, Leo... I know you can't hear me, but I wish you safe travels. My kind and precocious little brother, who was ever at my side... I hope you find the answers you're looking for... And one day, I hope we'll be together again, as we should be.@Intro 
Mikoto: You look as if you’re feeling better after a few days to yourself, Corrin.
Corrin: I am, yes. I still have many questions, but at least now I have a few answers. Thank you for giving me the space I needed to think.
Mikoto: Of course. I’m glad to hear you’re feeling better. If you wouldn’t mind, I have a small favor to ask. Would you try sitting on the throne for a moment?
Corrin: Why would I do that?
Mikoto: Well…this throne is infused with the power of the First Dragons. It is said that those who sit on it regain their true form and mind. I thought if you sat on the throne, then perhaps-
Corrin: Wait… Do you not trust me? Do you think I’m under some kind of Nohrian spell?
Mikoto: No! It has nothing to do with trust. I just wonder if the Nohrians have been sealing away your early memories… If so, maybe this special throne could help bring those lost pieces back. Those sweet memories of me and your siblings…
Corrin: I see.
Mikoto: I’m sorry, Corrin. I don’t mean to push you toward something you don’t want.

Yukimura: Excuse me, Lady Mikoto. The ceremony is about to begin.
Mikoto: Thank you, Yukimura. Corrin, you probably don’t remember him, but this is Yukimura. He’s one of our strategists and brightest leaders. We would be lost without him!
Yukimura: You are too kind, milady. Though in truth, I still have much to learn. That said, I am here to help in any way I can, Lord/Lady Corrin.

Mikoto: I’d like to make a public announcement about your presence here, Corrin. There have been rumors circulating about spies from Nohr infiltrating the castle. I would like to quash those rumors once and for all. Yukimura, is everything ready?
Yukimura: Yes, milady. People are beginning to gather at the plaza.
Mikoto: Excellent. Thank you. Corrin, I’ve arranged for Takumi, Hinoka, and Sakura to give you a tour. I thought you might want to get to know the area a little bit before this event. I need to speak with Yukimura first, but I’ll meet you at the plaza soon.
Hinoka: We’d be happy to show him/her around. Thank you, Mother.
Mikoto: Azura, do you mind going with them as well?
Azura: Not at all. It would be my pleasure.
Corrin: Thank you, Azura.
Azura: Of course, Corrin.
Takumi: Hmph.
Sakura: I can’t wait to show you around! I think you’ll l-love it here.
Corrin: Thank you, Sakura. A guided tour sounds like a great idea.

Mikoto: I hope Corrin is truly OK with all of this…
Yukimura: Yes, I can’t imagine the position he’s/she's in. It’s a lot to process. That said, I think his/her return is a message from the gods.
Ryoma: A good message, I hope.
Yukimura: Why do you say that?
Ryoma: I don’t know. After that invasion up north, I just feel uneasy. We should remain on high alert, if you ask me.

Old Woman: Hey, young man/lady! Would you like to try my world-famous roasted potatoes? They’re delicious and nutritious! I guarantee you’ll love ’em.
Corrin: Well…sure! Why not? Mmm…I’ve never tasted spices like these before. This is amazing!
Old Woman: Ha ha! Told ya! Here, take an extra one on the house. Share it with your lady friend!/friend!
Corrin: Well, thank you very much! Here you go, Azura.
Azura: Thank you, Corrin. Mmm, you’re right. This is delicious.

Corrin: Everyone really is friendly here. And it’s so…bright…and open. It’s quite a contrast from the fortress I grew up in.
Azura: I’m glad you like it. Like I said, I’ve always been happy here.
Takumi: Just don’t get too comfortable…BROTHER/SISTER.
Corrin: Pardon me?
Takumi: I don’t trust you. Shouldn’t you be heading back to Nohr soon?
Azura: Takumi…
Takumi: Hey, who said you could call me by name? You haven’t earned that privilege either.
Corrin: That doesn’t even make sense.
Takumi: Excuse me?
Corrin: Azura has been in Hoshido for as long as I’ve been gone. Shouldn’t that be enough to consider her part of the family?
Takumi: I don’t care. I don’t trust either of you. I just wanted to tell you that to your face.
Sakura: I apologize for Takumi’s rudeness. He’s a bit of a hothead. Anyway, how’d you like to try a sweet rice dumpling? It’s a Hoshidan specialty!
Corrin: I’d love to. Thanks, Sakura!
Sakura: You’re welcome!
Corrin: You know, I’m very close with a girl in Nohr who’s around your age.
Sakura:  Oh? What's she like?
Corrin:  Well, she's generous and kind. Always putting the need of others first...
Hinoka: All right, everyone. The ceremony is starting. Let’s head to the plaza!

@Cutscene 
Corrin: *gasps*
Mikoto:  You were not hurt? Tell me you’re OK.
Corrin: I’m fine…
Mikoto: I’m so glad…
Corrin:  Mother!
Sakura: Mother?… Mother!

Ryoma: You there! Show yourself!
Takumi: Gods! What is that?
Ryoma: It's an ancient dragon. I never thought I’d see the day…

@Battle 
Azura: Corrin! A word of warning, if you can hear me. Watch out for enemies carrying Wyrmslayers! They’re a type of blade designed to pierce dragon scales-and they work!

Azura: Corrin, listen! My song can help you win this battle. Using it can give you another chance to attack or take cover in a pinch. Please don’t hesitate to ask me for help!

Ryoma: Be careful, everyone! These enemies are no mere Faceless. One wrong move and they’re perfectly capable of ending you. I hope we can count on Corrin even in this new form…

Sakura: Watch out for magical attacks, Corrin! Your defense against physical attacks is strong…but you’ll need higher resistance to protect yourself against mages.

@Boss 
???: Show me…what you’ve got. Heh. Heh. Heh…

%Ryoma,???
Ryoma: Vengeance will be mine... Prepare to die!
???: Heh. Heh. Heh...

@Character-Falls
Ryoma: You can kill me, but you cannot kill the spirit of Hoshido!
Sakura: Brother, no! You have to step back! We can’t afford to lose you…
Ryoma: Ugh…you’re right. I’ll retreat for now…

Azura: No! You can't die like this, Corrin! What are we going to do without you...

@End 
Azura: You are the ocean's gray waves ♪ Ahh...
Ryoma: Azura! No, stop!

Ryoma: Ooh! *gasps*

Azura: You are the ocean's gray waves, destined to seek ♪  Life beyond the shore, just out of reach.

Azura: Yet the waters ever change ♪ 
Sakura: No! *whimpers*

Azura: Flowing like time... ♪  The path is yours to climb.

Azura: Kill me if you want, but…do it as yourself.

Corrin: *huff* *huff* Ughhh… I…I finally remember! I remember…

@Flashback 
Garon: Fire at will.

Garon: I’m disappointed in you, Sumeragi. *sinister laugh* That wasn’t even my best trap.

Garon: You poor thing. Orphaned at such…a tender young age. You are my child now.

@End 
Corrin: My real father…
Azura: Are you all right, Corrin?
Corrin: Yes, I’m fine. Just disgusted with myself. Are you OK? I can’t believe what I just did to you. It was like…I had no control over myself.
Azura: Please don’t worry about it. That wasn’t you. It was the blood of the ancient dragon that runs in your veins.
Corrin: I thought only the Nohrian royal family had dragon blood.
Ryoma: The blood of the Dusk Dragon runs in the Nohrian royal family. And the blood of the Dawn Dragon runs through ours. But you’re special, Corrin. You can actually take the form of a dragon.
Azura: I’ve heard of such a thing. But this is my first time seeing it in real life…
Corrin: … Never mind me. What happened to all the innocent people in town?

Corrin: I can’t believe this. The entire town…devastated. An hour ago these streets were filled with vendors and children and…
Ryoma: So you see, Corrin. This is the work of the Nohrians. This is what they do. Let me guess. That sword you carried…was it a gift from King Garon?
Corrin: Yes.
Ryoma: He masterminded the whole thing. It’s not your fault. He knew you’ll be captured and brought before the queen…
Corrin: But why? Why would he do this? I’m so sorry I couldn’t see it coming…
Takumi: Your apology means NOTHING.
Corrin: …
Takumi: This is all your fault! Mother is dead, along with countless others. And it wouldn’t have happened if you hadn’t shown up on our doorstep. You don’t belong here!
Ryoma: Enough, Takumi!
Azura: Your words don’t change anything. And besides-
Takumi: Shut up, Azura! You’re no different than Corrin. An interloper.
Azura: …
Corrin: Takumi…
Takumi: Don’t speak my name! I don’t want to see you again. Are we really to believe you had no idea this would happen?
Hinoka: Takumi, what are you saying? Knock it off! You just saw Corrin help us defeat those Nohrian soldiers!
Azura: Takumi, please. You must listen. Corrin is your brother/sister. If you don’t trust me, that’s one thing. But Corrin is your own blood.
Takumi: Mother is dead. Thanks to him/her. He’s/She's not my brother/sister.
Corrin: I’m so sorry, everyone. I’ve brought nothing but pain to all of you. It would be better if I’d never come here— maybe I should just leave.
Yukimura: Please wait. I don’t believe that’s what Queen Mikoto would have wanted.
Takumi: What do you know about it, Yukimura?
Ryoma: What do you mean? Did she say something to you?
Yukimura: I hate to deliver this news, but… Queen Mikoto foresaw her own death. This isn’t your fault, Corrin. King Garon set these events in motion. And the queen speculated that there may be an even darker force at work. She didn’t know when or how death would strike, only that it was certain. And there’s one other thing. Please take a look at that statue.
Corrin: Is that…a sword?
Ryoma: It can’t be…
Yukimura: It is. The divine sword Yato. Much like your weapon, Ryoma. The divine Raijinto… And your Fujin Yumi, Takumi... Yato may be wielded by only a singular warrior. One who is chosen by the blade itself. It is said that the Yato was forged to be the key to peace in our world.
Corrin: The key to peace…

Ryoma: The blade has chosen Corrin!
Takumi: Impossible.
Hinoka: Corrin, do you know what this means?
Sakura: Corrin? Are you listening? Can you h-hear us?

Kaze: Lord Ryoma! I have important news. A massive Nohrian force is gathering at our border.
Ryoma: This is the final straw. I have worked hard to avoid an all-out war, but now… Death is too good for them. Who’s with me?

Corrin: There must be another way. Surely the answer is not more bloodshed. But I feel I must follow Ryoma to the border. If I can help avert total war…
Azura: Wait, Corrin! There’s something you need to know. If you become embroiled in a fight right now, it would be easy to lose control. Your dragon blood could take over again. And if you yield completely to the dragon, you may lose your humanity altogether.
Corrin: Is there anything I can do?
Azura: Yes. This is called a Dragonstone. It will allow you to control the dragon’s power and still return to your human form. Now, please close your eyes…
Corrin: Very well…
Azura: … There. You should be OK now. This Dragonstone is now attuned to you. Be sure to keep it safe.
Corrin: Thank you, Azura. I don’t know what I’d do without you.
Azura: Oh! Um…
Corrin: I’m sorry. Did I make you uncomfortable? I know we’ve known each other only a short while, but I feel close to you. You already risked your life to help calm my dragon form. I only hope I can repay the favor someday.
Azura: Thank you, Corrin. I feel close to you as well. I feel…safe when I’m with you. I wish to keep you safe too. That’s why I’m coming with you to face Nohr.@Intro 
Azura: This is it... Fort Jinya. This is essentially Hoshido's front line. It's rumored to be impregnable. Seizing it is tantamount to conquering Hoshido. We must not fail.
Corrin: *sigh* Of course it's impregnable. Why is it never easy?
Azura: We should brace ourselves. We will likely be battling people we know in there.
Corrin: I'm ready. We've made it this far... There's no turning back now. It's just like Xander said. No matter who we lose...or who we end up hurting... We must do what we must do to bring peace to this war-torn land.
Azura: You're right. Even if I must defeat the siblings I grew up with... It is for a higher purpose. Neither of us should regret the events to come. We're in this together, Corrin. I will follow you to the end.
Corrin: Thank you, Azura. Your support gives me strength. Well, there’s no reason to postpone this any longer. The soldiers inside have likely already realized we're here. We should attack first, before they do. Let's go.

Yukimura: Lady Sakura, what are you still doing here? You must escape! NOW!
Sakura: Wh-what's the matter, Yukimura? You're out of breath!
Yukimura: Milady, you must stop healing our soldiers and retreat. There isn't a moment to lose. Lord/Lady Corrin and his/her army are outside the fort, preparing for battle.
Sakura: Corrin's here? ...I see. Then I will j-join the fight.
Yukimura: You don't know what you're saying. You need to get back to the castle right—
Sakura: I WILL NOT LEAVE!
Yukimura: L-Lady Sakura?!
Sakura: I'm sorry, Yukimura. I know you're only looking out for me. But I'm no longer a powerless princess. I will f-fight for my kingdom. I refuse to leave these soldiers behind and be the only one who escapes! Please, Yukimura. P-please try to understand.
Yukimura: Lady Sakura... *sigh* My word, what to do? Lord Ryoma would kill me for this, but... If it means that much to you to stay, then I shall not force you to retreat. But only if you allow me to arrange for your protection. We shall fight together.
Sakura: Th-thank you, Yukimura.

@Boss 
Hana: I swear that my sword will not rest until Lady Sakura is safe!

Hana: Lady Sakura, I'm so very sorry... I've lost... Forgive me...

Subaki: I will defend this fort, as well as Lady Sakura's honor!

Subaki: I actually...lost...? How clumsy...

Sakura: I won't let you pass! The people of Hoshido are too p-precious to me!

Sakura: I failed... I guess I'm still just a p-powerless princess...

Yukimura: My brain against your brawn... Let us see which one comes out on top!

Yukimura: Lady Mikoto... I am sorry...

%Corrin,Hana 
Hana: You're finally here, Lord/Lady Corrin! I am Hana, Lady Sakura's retainer. I'll have your head on a platter!
Corrin: Huh?!
Hana: I could never, ever forgive you after what you did to Lady Mikoto! You tried to destroy Hoshido, and you made Lady Sakura sad... Do you have any idea how many nights she cried herself to sleep over you?! That's why I won't be satisfied... Not until I kill you myself!
Corrin: Um...are you crying?
Hana: Sh-shut up! Samurai don't cry! You're just trying to distract me! I won't cry and I won't lose! You won't hurt my beloved Sakura ever again! You absolutely WILL NOT make it past me. You won't, you won't, you won't!!

%Corrin,Subaki 
Subaki: Lord/Lady Corrin, I presume? The sweet, wonderful, mysterious-yet-charming big brother/sister of Lady Sakura? It's an honor to finally make your acquaintance.
Corrin: Erm... Come again?
Subaki: Oh, Lady Sakura said those things about you after you two met. She wouldn't stop saying those things, as it were. Even after you left. As her retainer, I make it my business to remember such details.
Corrin: Sakura... She really said all that?
Subaki: Yes. She seems to have nothing but the highest opinion of you. She was devastated after you betrayed her.
Corrin: ...
Subaki: Worry not. All will be as it should once I send you to your grave. I cannot bear to ever see that sad look in her eyes again. The one YOU caused. So, shall we begin?

%Corrin,Sakura
Sakura: Corrin!
Corrin: Sakura... I didn’t expect you to be here. But if you insist on blocking our way, I won't back down.
Sakura: I know... And I know I probably can't w-win against you, either. But as a princess, I have to at least try to protect my kingdom! So, r-ready your sword. It's time to battle!
Corrin: As you wish.
Sakura: This is the first time we'll really be fighting, B-brother/S-sister. I wish...we were fighting side by side instead...

%Azura,Sakura
Sakura: Azura!
Azura: Sakura... I'm surprised to see you here. When did you learn to fight?
Sakura: After M-Mother died, I began training, so I could protect the ones I love. I won't let anyone get past me - not even you!
Azura: I see. I always knew you would grow into a strong woman. I'm happy to see you like this, Sakura. Whatever happens, I'm proud of you.
Sakura: Azura... *sniff... sniff... * My... sister...
Azura: Don't cry, Sakura. This is a battlefield, and we are at war. Ready your weapon, dear Sister. Show me how strong you've become.
Sakura: *sniff* OK! Let's b-begin!

%Corrin,Yukimura 
Yukimura: I will defend this fort and Hoshido, until death if I must. Though seeing us fight would have destroyed Lady Mikoto, it must be so.
Corrin: This is not how I would have wanted this to end either, Yukimura. But here we are... So brace yourself!

@End 
Xander: Listen well, Hoshidan army. This fort belongs to Nohr now! To fight back would be futile. Throw down your weapons and surrender! Do as I say, and the lives of all remaining soldiers will be spared!

Yukimura: Bah! I'm afraid we've been outmatched. We have no choice... None who remain are in any shape to continue this battle. The wisest path open to us is to surrender and live to fight another day...
Sakura: I'm s-so sorry... I should have... If only I were...
Yukimura: Nonsense, Lady Sakura. You fought bravely, I am quite proud of you. The same goes for you two, Subaki and Hana.
Subaki: Yukimura... This cannot be happening...
Hana: *sniff* We really lost...didn't we?
Yukimura: Yes, I'm afraid so. But we are still alive. As long as we live, so does our cause. Let us lay down our weapons now. It's time to surrender. There's no reason for any more blood to be shed on these stones.
Sakura: *sniff* Y-you're right Yukimura. It's over...

Xander: Hoshidan army! This is the last time I will repeat myself. The Nohrian army has claimed this fort for our own. Surrender now and—
Yukimura: We heard you the first time, Crown Prince of Nohr.
Xander: Then you should have responded sooner, lest I mistake your silence for cowardice. Or do you still intend to fight the inevitable?

Yukimura: No, we do not. You have won. The Hoshidan army surrenders. All remaining soldiers have been instructed to lay down their weapons. We do so in good faith that you will, at the least, spare our princess...
Xander: You have made the right choice. Your fallen queen would be proud. In return, I promise that your princess and your troops will be spared. Soldiers! Bind the prisoners! But under no circumstances are they to be harmed!

Nohrian: Yes, milord!
Yukimura: Ugh...
Sakura: ...

Corrin: Sakura, Yukimura... Please forgive me. I know it seems cruel, but this is the only way to end this awful war once and for all. I know you don't understand now... But perhaps one day...

Hoshidan: GYAAAAAA!!
Corrin: Huh?!

Hans: HA! Is this really all you Hoshidan rats are capable of? Pathetic!
Corrin: Hans! What are you doing here?!
Yukimura: What is the meaning of this?! You swore to spare our soldiers' lives if we surrendered!
Sakura: No, please! I need to heal them right away or th-they'll... Please untie my hands! I swear I won't try to escape! PLEASE, let me help them!!
Iago: I'm afraid I cannot allow that, princess of Hoshido.
Corrin: Iago!
Iago: Ah, if it isn't Prince/Princess Corrin! My, how easily you seized this fort. What a truly impressive display of brute force! King Garon will certainly shower praise upon you for this grand triumph.
Corrin: I could not care less about praise right now, Iago. What is the meaning of this?!
Iago: We were just SO worried about our young prince/princess! We came to help. Now that we're here, just leave the messy part to us. General Hans here is all too eager to put these sorry Hoshidans out of their misery.
Corrin: No, you monster! Those soldiers already surrendered! The battle is won! I will not allow you to take the lives of unarmed soldiers. Stand down, NOW.
Iago: Oh dear, how awkward. You may wish for us to stand down, but you see...
Hans: Die, die, DIE!!

Hoshidan: AAAHHHH!!
Hoshidan: GAAAHHHH!!
Sakura: NOOO! Please, stop it! Don't kill anyone else—I beg of you! *sob* Please...
Corrin: That's ENOUGH, Iago! I order you to stop this madness!
Xander: Damn you, insolent fool! Stop with this cruelty now, or so help me, I will kill you myself!
Iago: What?! You can't be serious, Lord Xander!
Xander: I am not known to make light of serious matters, Iago. I refuse to harbor a cruel and spineless general in the proud Nohrian army. As crown prince, I will not hesitate to strike you down for the honor of Nohr.
???: Not today, Xander. Stand down.
Xander: No... It cannot be!
Garon: ...
Xander: Father...
Garon: My orders have been given. I will not allow anyone, even my own child, to disobey.
Corrin: But, Father! Xander was just—
Garon: Did I not make myself clear?! Disobey and die!
Corrin: ... ...Y-yes, Father.
Xander: ...Under...stood.
Garon: Good. Let that be the end of it.
Yukimura: Liars! Cowards! Filthy Nohrian scum! I will never forgive you for this! NEVER! You're all monsters! Demons! DEVILS!!
Sakura: *sob* H-how could this...happen... They were supposed to be safe... This is... It's just too cruel!
Garon: You've done well, my children. Hoshido is as good as conquered. I am proud of you.
Corrin: ... ...@Intro 
Ryoma: This is quite a passage. It's more like a catacomb than a tunnel.
Elise: Yeah, there's some spooky stuff down here for sure!
Ryoma: Heh. Thank you for the warning. But I think we'll be all right.
Corrin: Yes, thank you so much for accompanying us here, Elise. We'll be alright from here. I'd recommend that you stay with Cassita for a while...
Elise: What? Why?
Corrin: Because...we're heading to the castle. That means that we'll be facing off against King Garon, and likely Xander too. Things could get ugly, and there's no need for you to be there.
Elise: So what you're saying is...you're going to try to kill Xander and Father. Right?
Corrin: I...I'm afraid I must do whatever it takes to end this war. Ultimately, I have to do what's right for the people of Hoshido and Nohr. If that means killing King Garon, or even Xander... Well...
Elise: I see... That settles it. I'm coming with you!
Corrin: Huh?! No, Elise! It's too dangerous! And I can't let you fight your family! That's a burden I alone must bear.
Elise: Oh, don't be silly. I'm not gonna fight with anyone, and neither are you! I'm not siding with or against you, Brother/Sister. I want to help bring both sides together! I want the war to end just as much as you do. So! I'm coming with you to let Xander and Father and everyone else know how I feel. They're still super mad at YOU, but maybe they'll hear me out! Maybe we CAN end the war without any more fighting! Don't we at least have to try to end this without hurting each other more?
Corrin: Elise... All right. I suppose you won't be in any danger from either side. Just promise me that you won't do anything reckless.
Elise: Yep, yep! I promise!
Corrin: All right, then. Let's get moving!

Corrin: So far, so good. This passage appears fairly well traveled. Although...I see a fork in the road ahead. Which way do we go, Elise?
Elise: The path on the right leads to an area near my quarters. Camilla said that the other path leads more or less to the throne room.
Corrin: Right. Left path it is.
Elise: But...she also said the left path is like a maze. She warned me to NEVER take that path, you guys!
Corrin: Don't worry, Elise. You wouldn't believe what we've had to overcome to get here. I'm confident that we can get through anything together.
Elise: If you say so...
Corrin: What's the matter?
Elise: It's just...you almost seem like a different person now. You're so...commanding. I guess I just have to get used to you being all grown up...
Corrin: It's true...I've done a lot of growing since I left Nohr. But don't worry, Elise. I'm still the same old Corrin. And I'll always do everything I can to protect you, Little Sister.
Elise: Aww, thank you. I'm so glad you came back! I love you so much!
Corrin: Haha! Whoa! Easy with the monster hugs. I almost fell over!
Elise: Heehee!

???: Ah! Did you hear that? That's Lady Elise's laugh!
???: Oh ho! You're right! Let's report this to Lady Camilla posthaste...

Ryoma: This part of the tunnel seems a bit ominous. Be on guard, everyone!
Takumi: Yeah, are you seeing all of these traps? Most of 'em have been sprung, but I bet there are even more that haven't.
Hinoka: And the ones that did spring look like they were pretty effective. I'm seeing more corpses than I'd like...
Sakura: C-corpses? Eek! I thought those were just decorations to make it spooky! I'm scared, Corrin.
Corrin: It's OK, Sakura. If you want to close your eyes, I can lead you through this part.
Sakura: Oh...th-thank you so much...
Elise: What about me? I'm scared too!
Corrin: Heh. I can help lead you, too. Just come over to this side.
Elise: Yay! Heehee! Uh-oh...do you hear that? There's someone behind us!
Corrin: Elise...have you ever seen any Faceless down here?

Camilla: Ah, Elise. There you are! I've been looking all over for you.
Elise: Camilla! What are you doing down here?
Camilla: Like I said, I was looking for you. Are you hurt, darling? Who are all these people? Are you being kidnapped right now?!
Elise: What? No! These are—
Camilla: The Hoshidans! I knew it. Well, I'm so glad we could meet down here. How DARE you bother my baby sister. I shall now make you all dearly regret ever stepping foot in here!
Corrin: Hold on, Camilla. It's me, Corrin! We're not kidnapping Elise!
Camilla: Corrin! How can this be? You're back in Nohr!
Corrin: It's...a long story.
Camilla: Well, have you come to your senses? Are you returning to Nohr for good?
Corrin: Oh...um... Sorry, but no. I want Hoshido and Nohr to be at peace, and that can't happen while Garon lives.
Camilla: Hmm. I see. So you want to come back, but these awful people are still confusing your little head. Don't worry, darling. Big Sister is here to take care of these monsters for you!
Corrin: Camilla, no! You don't understand!
Elise: Please listen, Sister!
Camilla: Don't worry, Elise. I promise to save our precious Corrin. Once I've killed all his/her friends, he's/she's sure to remember his/her true family. Right? Right!

@Battle 
Arthur: Never fear, Lady Elise! Arthur is here to vanquish your captors!
Effie: This won't be anything more than a light workout...
Elise: Oh, Arthur. I don't need saving! And, Effie...save your energy!
Corrin: Oh, Arthur and Effie... Those are your retainers, aren't they?
Elise: Yep! They're the best! They seem to think you're kidnapping me... Whoops! This is all my fault for sneaking out and running around with you. If you can get me over to them, I'm sure we can smooth this over.
Corrin: OK, I'll give it a shot. But remember...this is still a battlefield. Stay close!

@Battle-Talk 
%Elise,Arthur
Arthur: Lady Elise! I'm so glad you're safe. I was so disappointed in myself when I heard you were missing.
Elise: Oh, Arthur. I just came down to get away from the castle for a while. And just to be perfectly clear—Corrin is not kidnapping me!
Arthur: Oh. So there'll be no valiant rescue for me to perform today, I suppose...
Elise: Heehee! No, sorry about that, Arthur. I'm perfectly safe with Corrin. I'm trying to help him/her gain an audience with Father, that's all.
Arthur: Very well. I'll retreat the way I came. And I'll let Effie know as well. However, there's nothing I can do to stop Lady Camilla at this point. I hope you understand, milady.
Elise: *sigh* I know. My big sister can be so stubborn sometimes... Anyway, when this is all over, I'd like it if you came to my quarters for tea.
Arthur: Erm...you mean it's not over...now?
Elise: There's one last thing I gotta help Corrin with! It's all up to me! Don't worry about me. I'll be perfectly safe with Corrin. And afterward we can celebrate a new era of peace with some tea! Heehee!
Arthur: Nothing would please me more, milady. I shall await your triumphant return!
Elise: Yup! Thanks, Arthur. I'm lucky to have you as my retainer!
Arthur: You kind words are much appreciated.

%Elise,Effie 
Effie: Corrin, step away from Lady Elise at once!
Elise: No, Effie...it's OK! Corrin isn't kidnapping me. I snuck out of the castle on my own.
Effie: I don't understand... We've all been worried sick!
Elise: I'm trying to help Corrin settle things with Father before someone gets hurt. I can't stand watching people I love trying to kill each other. That includes you!
Effie: Well...my allegiance is to you above all others, Lady Elise. So as long as it appears you are in no danger, I will retreat. However, I'm not sure I can persuade Lady Camilla to stand down. I'm sorry. I hope you understand.
Elise: It's OK. I understand. When all of this is over, please meet me back at my quarters.
Effie: When all of this is over? What do you mean?
Elise: There's still something I need to help Corrin with! I won't be long. Don't worry about me, Effie. Like I said, when this all blows over, we'll have tea in my quarters. I can't wait!
Effie: Very well, milady. I'll let Arthur know you're OK. Please stay safe.
Elise: Yup! Thanks, Effie. Love you!
Effie: I love you, too...

@Boss 
Arthur: In the name of justice, I won't let you scoundrels kidnap Lady Elise!

Arthur: I've failed you, Lady Elise... Please...forgive me.

Effie: I've been training my entire life for this moment. Do you really think you stand a chance?

Effie: I couldn't protect you... I'm so sorry, Elise...

Selena: I let you win last time. You know that, right? Well, the kid gloves are coming off this time! You're going down!

Selena: Not fair!

Beruka: I'll defeat you all. Then Corrin will return, and Lady Camilla will smile again...

Beruka: How frustrating...

Camilla: Hmm... Once all of you are out of my way, Corrin will be all mine!

Camilla: I still love you, Corrin...

%Corrin,Selena 
Selena: Ugh. You again.
Corrin: Why do you seem so unhappy to see me?
Selena: We're about to fight, dummy! Lady Camilla told me not to kill you, though, so I guess it's your lucky day.
Corrin: Heh, so you're going to go easy on me, then?
Selena: Argh! Yes, but ONLY because Lady Camilla said so! Geez! Anyway, I'm not allowed to kill you, but that doesn't mean I can't beat you up!
Corrin: *sigh*

%Corrin,Beruka 
Beruka: What are you doing? I'm not supposed to kill you. Just get out of my way, and I'll let you live.
Corrin: Sorry, I can't do that. You'll have to get through me to get to my friends.
Beruka: But I...I'm not allowed to kill you. This doesn't make sense.
Corrin: You're exactly right! There's no need for us to fight.
Beruka: Hmm. I can't disobey an order. I suppose I'll just have to render you unconscious and then kill your friends.

%Corrin,Camilla 
Camilla: Oh, I'm so happy you're coming back to us, Corrin!
Corrin: Camilla...I'm not coming back. I'm trying to end this war! I don't want to fight you, but I can't let you stand in my way.
Camilla: Awww, I can't stand to see you upset like this. Come over here, and I'll just put you to sleep for a little while. I won't hurt you! I just need you to stay calm while I kill these fiends...
Corrin: You leave me no choice...

@End 
Camilla: So...it wasn't meant to be...you coming back to us... And now it looks like I'm losing my precious Elise, too...
Corrin: Camilla. You're not losing anyone. Elise is just coming with us to help persuade King Garon and Xander.
Camilla: Persuade them? Is it...possible?
Elise: Well, we won't know until we try. We have to change their minds to stop the fighting! I'm just doing whatever I can to bring our family back together again. It turns out we all want the same thing, Camilla! To be together again!
Camilla: Oh, Elise...
Corrin: Listen. When the war is over, I want to establish a peaceful alliance. If Nohr and Hoshido are on cordial terms, we don't have to be estranged. I must believe that if I end the war, I'll be able to return to my family one day.
Camilla: Do you really think peace is possible? I'd love to be a family again...
Corrin: What is the point of believing otherwise? We will either forge a peaceful future or die trying.
Camilla: I see. Well, I suppose it would be wonderful if we could all get along... I think I understand what you're trying to do. I hope you can make it happen.
Corrin: Thank you, Camilla.
Camilla: Yes...I can imagine it now. Xander, Leo, Elise, and...the Hoshidan Prince/Princess Corrin. We could all have a picnic! And there would be games, and food, and... Oh, dear...I'm feeling a bit woozy...

Elise: Camilla, are you OK?
Selena: Her pulse is strong, and she's breathing normally. I think she's fine. But she took quite a beating in that fight, and she must have been exhausted... No matter. We can take care of her. The rest of you are free to go.
Corrin: Oh? You won't try to stop us?
Selena: Yeah! You heard what she said, right? We can't go against Lady Camilla's orders just because she's unconscious! As much as I'd like to keep fighting...
Beruka: Selena...anger is clouding your judgment.
Selena: Whatever, Beruka! I'm tired—why don't you pick up Camilla and carry her back to her quarters.
Beruka: Why me?
Selena: Did you not hear me? I'm tired! That's why you!
Beruka: I see.
Selena: All right, Corrin. Get out of here before we change our minds! You just gave Lady Camilla hope... Don't go breaking her heart again!
Beruka: Go ahead, Corrin. Hurry.
Corrin: Right. Thank you. And thank you, Camilla, for finally understanding my aim. This war is coming to an end...I promise!@Intro 
Leo: Corrin, we've got trouble up ahead.
Xander: Yes, it would seem our path is blocked by thousands of Hoshidan soldiers. If they engage us, we don't stand a chance.
Corrin: Dammit! This is bad...
Azura: Ryoma must have ordered them to intercept us as soon as he returned. A logical course of action since he knew where we'd be coming from.
Corrin: I suppose we'll have to backtrack and find another way into the capital.
Azura: Not necessarily. There's another path just ahead we could potentially use.
Corrin: I get the feeling there's a catch.
Azura: To the west, there's a path through the mountains the Hoshidans never use. There would be no danger of running into their troops. However... That mountain is home to kitsune, a race of people who can transform into foxes. If they find us, there's no guarantee we'll make it back down the mountain alive.
Corrin: Hmm...
Azura: What will you have us do? I know it's tempting to avoid such a risky path... But the more time that passes, the more time the Hoshidans will have to prepare.
Corrin: *sigh* You're right, Azura. We'll go through the mountain. We need to end this war quickly so we can expose the truth about Father.
Azura: Sadly, I agree. Come, I'll show you the way.

Corrin: Ugh, we've climbed up so far already. I wonder where the kitsune live...
Azura: I'm not sure. Very few people have found their village and made it back in one piece. For all we know, we may have already passed it. Pray that's the case. For now, all we can do is remain on guard.
Corrin: Perhaps we should pick up the pace...
Elise: Corrin...
Corrin: Don't be frightened, Elise. Hold my hand if you need to, OK?
Elise: Um, it's not that... Look over there.
Corrin: Hm?

Kaden: Ehem.
Corrin: Is that what I think it is?!
Azura: A kitsune! Gods, no...
Kaden: ... Hey there, travelers! Nice to meet you!
Corrin: Ah, um... H-hello.
Kaden: It's been a long time since anyone's come up here for a visit. Are you Nohrian humans? You look like Nohrian Humans...
Azura: How does it know we're from Nohr?
Kaden: I'm not an "it", human! I have a name. A better name than yours, no doubt. Call me Kaden. I'm the chief of this village.
Azura: My apologies, Kaden. That was very rude of me. May I ask how you were able to discern that my friends and I are from Nohr?
Kaden: Your clothes, for one. And that smell. *SNIFF* Yep. You’re Nohrian, all right. That's great though. Nohrian humans are fine by me. I tend to wander away from home and lose my way now and then. Nohrian humans always seem to be the ones to help me find my way back. I love Nohrian humans!
Azura: Hm...
Corrin: It's nice to meet you, Kaden. I'm happy to see kitsune are friendlier than expected. We've heard all kinds of crazy rumors about people losing their lives to your kind... But it seems all that is just one big misunderstanding.
Azura: No, I'm afraid that's not so.
Corrin: Azura! Why would you say that?
Azura: Take a look around.

Kitsune: Grrrr! Rrrowl!!
Corrin: Kitsune! They must have surrounded us while we were distracted!
Kaden: Keehee, not bad, eh? It really was nice to meet you. I wish we could have met elsewhere. I really loathe violence, but since you stepped into our territory... Sorry, but you humans have to die now.
Corrin: What?! But you just said you like Nohrian people...
Kaden: Oh, I do! You smell so nice and are expert fur brushers! Honestly, all the humans I've met in the outside world have been nothing but kind. But the humans who come directly into our village never are. Our elders taught us long ago that humans who come here will kill us and take our fur! That's why we have to kill anyone who comes here, to protect our own.
Corrin: But we're not like that at all! We just want to pass through peacefully.
Kaden: Hmmm... I'd really like to trust you. You have an honest face for a human. But as village chief, it's my job to protect everyone, I can't risk it. I love my people too much... Even though I hate fighting, for them I will. I'm really sorry about all this.
Corrin: That makes absolutely no sense!
Kaden: If we meet in the afterlife, I'll make this up to you. Maybe we can even be friends! But for now... This is good-bye.

@Boss 
Kaden: As chief, I will protect my own! This is for peace! It really is!

Kaden: I'm sorry...everyone...!

@End 
Azura: It's over. Let's move, Corrin.
Corrin: *sigh*
Azura: Corrin?
Corrin: I know we had no choice but to fight them. Still...it felt wrong. We came here to avoid being massacred, but in the end...we're the ones who...
Azura: It could not be helped, Corrin. Though inherently peaceful, they were serious about killing us. We would have all died if we had held back.
Corrin: I know... Still, my heart breaks for them.
Azura: I know what you're thinking... That they'd still be alive if we hadn't come this way. But the war would have been prolonged, and others elsewhere would have died. Surely you see that?
Corrin: This war doesn't concern them. They were only guarding against potential poachers. They died because we brought them into this mess. Because I did.
Azura: And what would you have sacrificed to save them? Your family? Your kingdom?
Corrin: Huh?
Azura: In this world, there is no clean-cut path. You can't save everyone. Each path represents a choice to protect one thing while sacrificing another. All you can do is try to protect those you love as best you can. I know it's hard...but we must follow our hearts and let the tide of fate fall as it will. So forgive yourself, Corrin. For all the tragedy that has come and is yet to come. Forgive yourself.
Corrin: Forgive myself...?
Azura: Do you remember what you were told about your blade in Hoshido? Your Yato is a legendary sword destined to bring peace to the world. That sword chose you, and you chose this path. Don't you see? No matter how hard it is, or how sad, this path must be the right one. I truly believe that. I hope one day you will too.
Corrin: Azura... Thank you.
Azura: A smile? How refreshing. That's Corrin I'm used to seeing.
Corrin: If you were trying to cheer me up, you did an amazing job.
Azura: It was for the team. After all, I'm supposed to be the melancholy one! Now let's get down this mountain before the Hoshidans catch wind of our location.
Corrin: I wonder... Is she right?@Cutscene 
Azura: You are the ocean's gray waves, destined to seek ♪ Life beyond the shore, just out of reach.

Azura: Yet the waters ever change, flowing like time ♪ The path is yours to climb.

Ryoma: Nohrian general! You face the high prince of Hoshido, Ryoma! I challenge you to single combat!
Xander: I will accept your challenge, "high prince". But I'm no general. I am crown prince Xander of Nohr!

@Intro 
Hinoka: Come on, Corrin! We've got work to do.

Hinoka: Corrin, what's the matter with you? You seem distracted... If you're worried, don't be. All your siblings are here with you. The Nohrians don't stand a chance!

@Battle 
Hinoka: Ready to attack?

Ryoma: I demand to know why you Nohrian dogs are invading Hoshido! Was that cowardly attack on my people your doing as well, princeling?
Xander: ...I have nothing to say to you. Surrender now. If you refuse...you die here.

Elise: Oh, no! The bridge collapsed! How can we help our brother/sister now?
Camilla: Not to worry, Elise. This royal blood in our veins is still good for something!
Leo: Have you spotted a Dragon Vein, Camilla?
Camilla: You know me too well, dear little brother!

Elise: Yaaay, it worked! The river dried up!
Camilla: I would never let you down, darling. Now, everyone follow me.
Leo: Elise, you're not ready for the front lines. Stay back. Camilla, and I will take care of the Hoshidans.

Hinoka: The Nohrian army used a Dragon Vein to dry up the river! But I thought only royals held that power...
Takumi: Yeah, which means there must be some real big shots over there. Suit me just fine. I've always wanted to use a Nohrian royal for target practice!
Hinoka: Stay focused, Corrin. The Nohrians brought their heavy hitters this time.

Hans: Listen up, cannon fodder! We have a direct order from King Garon. He says kill 'em all!
Hinoka: Dammit, their reinforcements had arrived! I'll go scout out how many there are. Takumi, Sakura, Stay with Corrin!
Takumi: Understood.
Sakura: Y-yes. Good idea.

Takumi: Hang in there, Corrin. The Nohrian royals are not pushovers... We'll have to work together to beat them. As the eldest, I guess you're in charge. Tell me what to do and I'll do it.

Sakura: Are you hurt, Corrin!? Here, let me heal your wounds!

Yukimura: Comrades! Do not let them cross this line. We must defend Hoshido.

Sakura: Oh n-no! An enemy!
Takumi: It's an ambush! Sakura, stay back. You aren't equipped to fight.
Hinoka: Takumi! Corrin! I'm counting on you two. Work together to defeat that solider!
Takumi:  Listen, here's how we're gonna do this! With my bow, I can shoot this one from here. I'll soften him up, and then you can jump in and finish him off. Got it?
Sakura:  Be careful, Corrin!

@End 
Hinoka: Corrin, Takumi, good work fighting off that ambush.
Sakura: You were amazing, Corrin.
Takumi: That went well. Probably because SOMEONE gave you good advice. ...And you're welcome, by the way.
Hinoka: No time to talk! Let's see how Ryoma's doing.

Hinoka: Ryoma, are you alright?
Ryoma: I'll be fine. I'm glad to see you're all safe. Enemy reinforcements are headed this way. I want you to get rid of them. Corrin, I'm counting on you to keep Hinoka and the others safe.
Xander: Corrin! Thank heavens we found you, and that you're alive and well. Quickly, come join us! Your family has come to take you home where you belong.
Ryoma: Quiet, Nohrian filth! Corrin is my brother/sister and a prince/princess of Hoshido!
Xander: On the contrary, Corrin is MY brother/sister and a prince/princess of Nohr!
Camilla: Corrin! I was so worried about you. Don't ever wonder away from me again!
Leo: I'm glad you're OK, Corrin. You must have the devil's own luck!
Elise: Yaaay! We got our brother/sister back!
Hinoka: Nohrian scum! First you kidnap him/her, now you lied to him/her?! Corrin is MY brother/sister, not yours!
Camilla: You are mistaken. Corrin is my sweet little brother/sister. You may not have him/her.
Ryoma: Don't be fool by their words. You belong with your true family in Hoshido!
Xander: We have loved you and raised you since you were a child. Come home, little prince/princess. We can live as a family once more!
Ryoma: Come home to Hoshido, Corrin!
Xander: No, Corrin! Nohr is your home!@Intro 
Corrin: Wow. This is Cheve? If Ryoma is here, he's probably not in dire need of our help.
Hinoka: Actually, Corrin, Cheve is still inland from here. This place is called Cyrkensia. It belongs to the kingdom of Nestra. Nestra is another neutral kingdom, Like Izumo. As you can see, this city is known for leisure. People from both Nohr and Hoshido vacation here, even in times of war.
Corrin: Ah. Well, it certainly seems lively!
Azura: Yes. You'd hardly know there's a war going on elsewhere...
Corrin: Let's hope it stays that way.
Kaden: Hey, guys! You're humans, right? Are you from Hoshido? My name's Kaden!
Corrin: Excuse me?
Kaden: You know, humans? Like, you don't have fuzzy tails or ears? And you don't transform into any other creatures?
Corrin: Well...yes and no.
Kaden: Aww, you're not going to answer my questions? That's rude!
Corrin: No, I'm sorry. It's just that...it's complicated. And as to whether we're from Hoshido... Also complicated. Sorry that I can't be more specific right now. May I ask who—and what—you are?
Azura: Corrin, he's a kitsune—a Hoshidan tribe with shapeshifting abilities.
Kaden: Yup! That's exactly it. I can turn into a fox! Wanna see?
Azura: Kaden, what are you doing so far from home? I thought kitsune didn't leave the village for any reason.
Kaden: Yeah, that's true. But I'm a little different, I guess. I'm here to return a favor for someone. Anytime someone's nice to me, I have to be nice in return. One day, I walked out of my village and met some humans. And they were so excellent to me! I had to find a way to repay them. That led me to meet more humans, who were also super nice. One favor led to another, and I wound up here without even knowing how I got here.
Azura: So...you're actually lost?
Kaden: Nah, kitsune never get lost.
Azura: All right. Let me put it another way. Do you know how to get home?
Kaden: No. I don't. But I can't go home yet anyway! I owe someone here a big favor. Hmm... Maybe you guys could help me out... It kind of seems like a human problem, so I don't really know what to do. Here, can you talk to my new friend about it? Her name's Layla.
Layla: *sob*
Corrin: Oh. Um, hello. How can we help you?
Layla: I don't think that you can...
Corrin: Please, try us. We've just arrived, so we have a little time before we have to move on. I know we don't owe you anything, but we'd like to help.
Layla: Very well. My mother lives in a small village a few miles from here. She's old and frail, and I'm told the end could come at any moment. I really need to go and see her right away, but there's a problem... I'm a singer, and I have a performance scheduled today...for King Garon.
Corrin: Gods! King Garon is here now?
Layla: Yes. He visits the area often, and he always requests a performance from me. But how can I sing at a time like this?
Azura: I believe that we can help. I can perform in your stead.
Layla: Do you really think that will work?
Corrin: I'm not sure about this, Azura.
Azura: Don't you see, Corrin? This is our chance to take the enemy by surprise. We shouldn't waste the opportunity!
Corrin: Hmm. Are you thinking what I'm thinking?
Kaden: Uh, guys? Can you not tell that these two look COMPLETELY different? I mean, I know you don't have sweet fox vision like me, but...
Azura: Kaden, we have a mage traveling with us who can make me look exactly like Layla. Your decision to accept Zola is looking quite sage now, Corrin.
Zola: Wait, what do you want me to do?
Azura: You heard me, Zola. While King Garon is distracted by my song, others can approach undetected. If we capture Garon, Nohr would have no choice but to negotiate for peace.
Zola: I don't know. Garon would DEFINITELY kill me if he found out...
Corrin: I thought you were on our side now, Zola. We need you! We are trying to end the war as peacefully as we can. Don't you see that?
Zola: Ugh... I understand. I'll do it. The Nohrians will see Lady Azura as Layla. However, you must understand that my spell won't change her voice! I hope you've got some good pipes, Lady Azura!
Corrin: Oh, rest assured... Azura is an incredible singer.
Hinoka: That's right. This wouldn't be the first time she's mesmerized a crowd with her voice.
Layla: Well...if you say so. I would be so grateful for the chance to see my mother. Are you really sure about all this? If you fail, King Garon is going to be really mad...
Azura: Don't worry about us. Just go see your mother while you still can. And thank you for providing us this opportunity.
Layla: All right. Good luck!
Kaden: Yay! I think Layla and I are even. But...now I owe you guys. Wow! I've really got myself in a pickle with this whole favor thing... Do you think I could tag along with you humans until I figure out how to repay you?
Corrin: Kaden, you do realize that we're in the middle of a war, right?
Kaden: Yeah, that sounds crazy and exciting! Did I already tell you that I can turn into a big, scary fox? It's so great!
Corrin: And do you have any combat experience as a fox?
Kaden: Ha! Take a look at this beaststone. It makes me super fierce.
Corrin: Very well. I suspect you'll be able to repay your supposed debt to us rather quickly.
Sakura: Everyone, we don't have much time left before the show s-starts...
Corrin: Right. Zola, time to work your magic...

Takumi: The show's starting...where's King Garon?
Corrin: I don't know... Ah, look up there. In the roped-off area. I haven't seen him since the attack. I still can't believe this is happening.
Takumi: Who's that sitting next to him?
Elise: Maybe this music will help distract me from all the awful things going on...
Corrin: That's Elise, my sister. She looks so sad. She was such a bright and cheerful girl before all this happened... Poor Elise. I'm so sorry for choosing to stand against you. When all of this is over, I hope you'll understand the decisions I made...

Azura: Ahem...
Elise: Tell me, Father. What sorts of things does this performer sing about?
Garon: Does it matter? Her voice is divine. Just sit back and enjoy the show.
Elise: All right...
Azura: You are the ocean's gray waves... ♪
Corrin: That song? No, Azura! What are you doing?

Corrin: I don't believe it. It's working! The Nohrian soldiers are enthralled by the song. Now's our chance! Soldiers of Hoshido, gather yourselves--
Garon: Well, well, well. Just what do you think you're doing, Corrin?
Corrin: Gah!
Garon: Capture them, men!

Corrin: There are so many of them...
Garon: Did you really think you could outsmart me, Corrin? Pathetic.
Elise: What are they going to do to my Corrin?
Corrin: Elise!
Garon: How fascinating. Despite your treason and betrayal, you still seem to care about your sister.
Corrin: I don't understand. How could you have anticipated this?
Garon: Ah, Corrin. Your naiveté is embarrassing. I still can't believe you willingly allowed one of my men to travel with you.

Zola: Eek! King Garon, what are you doing? They didn't need to know that!
Corrin: Zola was behind this? But he proved his loyalty!
Takumi: That's right. I could be dead if it weren't for him.
Zola: What better way to convince you all? I knew a healer would be nearby.
Takumi: You filthy rat! I'll kill you myself!
Zola: So...Your Majesty. I've followed through on my end of the deal... Can you please tell Lord Leo not to kill me after all? And, um, while you're at it... Would it inconvenience you terribly to pardon Lord/Lady Corrin? The Hoshidans have practically brainwashed him/her! This isn't his/her fault.
Corrin: What's the matter, Zola? Conscience bothering you?
Zola: Please, King Garon! I beg you!
Garon: This grows tiresome.
Zola: Wait...but...
Garon: But nothing! You think you have the right to ask ME for anything?

Zola: Gyaah!
Elise: Father! What are you doing?
Zola: Ugh...Lord/Lady Corrin...please forgive me...

Corrin: That was heartless.
Garon: Still you pity a...creature...such as that! One who betrayed you, nonetheless! This is the source of your weakness.
Corrin: Do you really think it's OK to use people as you see fit and then dispose of them? How admirable.
Takumi: I'll show you weakness. Just come within range of my bow...
Corrin: No. We can't make a stand here. There are too many of them. We need to escape and regroup. Everyone, make for that exit!

@Battle 
Corrin: It looks like they’re sending in more reinforcements…
Xander: So it’s come to this. You dare to point your sword at our king… The same man you once called Father.
Corrin: Xander…
Silas: Please understand, milord! Lord/Lady Corrin’s actions are justified! King Garon’s dark ambition is the sole cause of this war. Unless we stop him, both kingdoms with continue to suffer.
Xander: Your words mean nothing, traitor.
Silas: Prince Xander, please…
Corrin: Xander, listen—
Xander: I will not. You have betrayed our family, and as such, deserve a traitor’s fate. Draw your sword, Corrin, and we’ll settle this once and for all. Go on! If you would oppose us, then kill your brother with your own hands! Destroy the very friends and soldiers who once protected you!

Azura: Corrin! There's an escape route behind the stage! Hurry! Before they overwhelm us…

@Boss 
Garon: Are you actually attempting to engage me in battle? Very well. Do your best!

Garon: Hmpf. This is a waste of time. My men can take it from here.

Xander: How reckless. Corrin hasn't prepared you for this fight. Well, his/her failings will be your undoing. Prepare to die.

Peri: I'm gonna bring your guts back to Lord Xander! Teeheehee!

Peri: Huh...that's strange. Usually, I'm the one doing the stabbing and killing. I need to retreat and think about this...

Laslow: Hey! Don't look at me like that!

Laslow: Blast. I hope Xander doesn't restrict my leisure time for this... 

%Corrin,Garon 
Corrin: You're not my father, and you never were. Prepare to die.
Garon: I may not be your father, but I will slap you down like a child. This foolishness ends now!

%Corrin,Xander 
Corrin: Brother, this is madness.
Xander: I’m not your brother anymore. Put that notion out of your head. By your own choice, we are enemies now. Prepare to fight!

%Corrin,Peri 
Peri: Ooh! I found you, you little traitor!
Corrin: I am not a traitor! King Garon is a tyrant! And who are you, anyway?
Peri: Not a traitor? But Lord Xander said you were... I'm Peri! No offense, but I'm going to kill you now.
Corrin: None taken. Wait, what am I saying?

%Corrin,Laslow 
Corrin: Who are you? I don't remember you from the castle....
Laslow: Oh, that's too bad. I've always had the highest opinion of you. I'm Laslow, one of Lord Xander's retainers.
Corrin: And I suppose you're here to stop me like the others...
Laslow: Yes, per Lord Xander's orders. It does seem unfortunate.
Corrin: *sigh*

@End 
Corrin: *huff* *huff* I...I think we’re safe here.
Xander: You can’t escape from me, Corrin.
Corrin: Brother!
Xander: You’ve gotten stronger, little prince/princess. But not strong enough. You have betrayed not only your king but your whole family. To think...I once called you Brother/Sister and loved you with all my heart…
Elise: Xander! Corrin! Please stop what you’re doing!
Corrin: Elise! What are you doing?
Xander: Stand back, Elise. Leave this to me.
Elise: No! I won’t let you hurt Corrin. If you must fight someone...fight me!
Corrin: Elise, please. Don’t do this.
Azura: Quickly—Elise has distracted Xander. Now’s our chance! We have to cut our losses and run. Fighting here put the innocent people of Nestra at risk.
Corrin: But…
Azura: Hurry, Corrin!
Corrin: Argh!
Xander: That’s right. Run away while you can. I will always find you, little prince/princess. It is your destiny to face me…

Takumi: I think we really did shake them this time.
Corrin: Yes. For now. But we’re eventually going to have to settle things once and for all with Xander. I’ve got a lot of work to do before I’ll be his equal in battle.
Takumi: You’re right. I’ve also got a long way to go.
Corrin: Still, we should take advantage of this chance to rest. We won’t get many. Have you seen Azura? I want to make sure she gets the message.
Takumi: Hmm, I saw her a minute ago… Ah, she’s right over there. Behind that tree.
Corrin: Thanks, Takumi. Tend to your wounds, and rest well. I’ll talk to you later.

Corrin: Hello, Azura. Is everything OK?
Azura: UNNGH…
Corrin: Whoa, what’s wrong?
Azura: *huff* *huff* Corrin?
Corrin: Yes, it’s me! What’s going on? Are you hurt?
Azura: No, no. I’m fine. Please, don’t worry…
Corrin: You really don’t seem fine. Wait here. I’ll go get Sakura.
Azura: No! Really, I’m fine. I just...need a moment.
Corrin: Are you sure? You look exhausted.
Azura: Yes. I suppose I am. Thank you for your concern. Really, though. I’m starting to feel better…

Corrin: All right…
Azura: Come on, we should get going. Ryoma is still out there somewhere.
Corrin: Wait, Azura—

Corrin: Damn.@Intro 
Corrin: … … …Hm? Where…am I? It’s so dark… I can’t see a thing… And I’m…so very…tired…

Mikoto: Rise and shine, sweet Corrin…
Corrin:  M-Mother?


Corrin: What’s going on? Is this…my room…?
Mikoto: You’re right where you belong, my love. Did you sleep well? You’ve always been such a sleepyhead, even when you were a baby. You’d always put up such a fuss whenever I tried to wake you up. So cute!
Corrin: Hm… Really?
Mikoto: My sweet boy/girl, didn’t Ryoma promise to train with you today? If you don’t get up right now, you’ll be late! You know how much he hates tardiness.
Corrin: I’m going to train…with Ryoma? But I’m still…so sleepy…
Mikoto: Now is not the time for sleep, darling Corrin. I wish I could let you stay… Let you sleep forever so I could keep you here with me. But I can’t be selfish… You have so much left to do.
Corrin: Mother? What are you--?
Ryoma:  Corrin! Are you really still in bed? Why am I not surprised?

Corrin: Ryoma!
Mikoto: I told you your brother would not tolerate being kept waiting, haha!
Ryoma: Grab your blade and meet me in the castle garden, lazy brother/sister. The longer you make me wait, the harder this training session will be on you.
Corrin:  OK… I’ll be right there… But where did I leave my… That’s odd… Where did my Yato go?
Ryoma: What’s wrong, Corrin?
Corrin: I can’t find my sword… But that’s OK. I’m sure I can find another one around here somewhere.
Mikoto: Are you sure you don’t want to find your Yato, Corrin? Don’t you need it?
Ryoma: Ha! So, you think if you beat me with your Yato, you can save the world. Is that it?
Corrin: Mother? Ryoma? What are you—
Ryoma: Wake up, Corrin. Surely you haven’t forgotten my dying words?
Corrin:  Your…dying words?!
Ryoma: … I’m counting on you, Corrin… That’s what I told you isn’t it? Isn’t it, Brother/Sister?
Corrin:  !! Ryoma! You did tell me that… You said it right before you…

Ryoma: So you do remember. I knew you wouldn’t forget.
Corrin: Ryoma… Wh-where am I?! Did Takumi’s last attack…kill me?
Ryoma: Nearly, but you can still go back to that world if your desire is strong enough. If you wish to keep fighting, you can return to your precious allies.
Corrin: Back to…my allies?
Azura: Wake up, Corrin!!

Azura: Please, we need you to wake up! You can’t die here!!
Takumi: Corrin…is dead…at last. He/She will never…open her/his eyes…again.
Xander: Bite your tongue, beast! Corrin is not dead. He/She WILL return to us! I won’t allow such a grotesque monster to take anyone else from me!
Takumi: You are…next…Prince Xander. I will…kill you!!

Xander: ARGH!!
Azura: AHHHH!!
Corrin: Those voices! That was… Xander and Azura!! My friends and loved ones are still fighting Takumi?! But I thought his anger would subside after defeating me…
Mikoto: The bitterness entrapping Takumi is stronger than you know. The beast within will not be satisfied until he has destroyed all Nohrians. But your allies—they won’t give up on you. They believe that you will return to them. They believe you will rise and fight with them once more.
Corrin: Gods…

Azura: You must not die here, Corrin. The world still have needs of you…

Felicia: I know you too well, milord/milady! You definitely won't die here. You're stronger than that! 

Jakob: Open your eyes! Lord/Lady Corrin. Please...I can't bear to lose you here!

Kaze: I believe in you, Lord/Lady Corrin. I believe you will return to us... 

Silas: Hang in there, old friend! Can you hear my voice?! If you can, come back to me!!

Mozu: You're just pretending to be dead, right? It's not funny, so stop it already!

Shura: You believed in me, and now it's time to repay the favor. Don't let me down...

Xander: Our battle is not yet won, little prince/princess! Keep fighting with me until the end!

Camilla: Don’t leave me, my precious Corrin! Please, gods, take me instead…

Leo: You won’t let a sorry attack like that kill you, right? You’re stronger than that…

Elise: You can’t die here! I need you around to hug and play with me! Please… *sniffle*

Laslow: You cannot die. That is not what the future holds in store. You must keep fighting!

Peri: Dying's no fun. If you die, you can't stab stuff anymore! IT'S NOT WORTH IT!

Selena: You wake up THIS INSTANT! I'll never forgive you if you die today! 

Beruka: Life is fragile... But you're not like anyone I've ever met...

Odin: An evil illusion is ensnaring you. Grab hold of my fell hand. We'll banish it together!

Niles: Seeing you so defenseless is fascinating, but that’s enough. Come back to us.

Effie: You're not our shield, Corrin—you are our sword. We need you...

Arthur: Fallen hero. I command you to rise in the name of justice!!

Nyx: One so young as you should not rush to your grave. Your time here has just begun...

Charlotte: Stop being worthless and get up already! I ain't got all day... 

Benny: I promise to protect everyone until you return, but please hurry... 

Keaton: Wake up, Corrin! If you do, I'll give you my second-favorite treasure! 

Kana: Mama/Papa, don’t leave me! I promise I’ll be a good boy/girl from now on!! Please… *sob*

Shigure: I wish to sing a song of rebirth or victory, not a dull requiem…

Dwyer: If you die here, you'll regret it. Get up, and I'll take care of you...

Sophie: Why are you lying around like that? Wake up—we have work to do!

Midori: Don't give up! Hang on, and I'll whip up some medicine for you!

Siegbert: Sacrificing your life to save others is noble, but our great kingdom still needs you!

Forrest: Please don’t leave us. You’re too dear to our hearts to die so suddenly!

Ignatius: This isn't over yet. Stop these nonsense and wake up!

Velouria: Daddy will be sad if you don’t get up soon. And, um…so will I…

Percy: Father says that justice never sleeps, so you can't go napping on the job either!

Ophelia: A gentle aura has encircled your body... It whispers words of awakening!

Soleil: Awww, you’re so cute when you’re napping. It’s time to wake up though, silly!

Nina: The battle will go on if you die, but I couldn’t bear the loss…

Gunter: I forbid you to die, milord/milady. No good could possibly come of it.

Flora: Wake up soon, or I'll be forced to use my ice powers on you again. Please...

Izana: Theatrics are My thing, got it? Now open your eyes and rejoin the battle!

Anna: You’re a one-of-a-kind asset… No returns, if you catch my drift. So wake up already!

Corrin: My friends! My family! I hear your cries… I must go back to my world… I must stop Takumi!
Ryoma: So you have decided to return…
Corrin: Yes, Ryoma. I’m so sorry…but it’s not my time yet. I wish I could stay with you and Mother forever… But standing still is not an option. I have a world to save!
Ryoma: I see. You really are my brother/sister, after all. But before you go, there’s someone who wishes to speak with you…
Corrin: There is? Who?

Takumi: …
Corrin: Takumi?! Wh-what are you doing here?! Aren’t you in the middle of fighting my allies? How can you be here too?
Takumi: I am here and here alone. That thing is not me. It is merely a monster making a puppet of my corpse, fueled by lingering resentment. Though I cannot truly be free while my body is imprisoned… In truth, my soul left that body long ago.
Corrin: Takumi… That’s horrible! Is there nothing I can do?!
Takumi: There is. Please, Corrin… I need you to destroy my body. Only your Yato has the power to release it from its unholy master.
Corrin: But Takumi, my Yato is—
Takumi: Yes, I know it was shattered by that monster’s last attack. That’s why you’ll need to take this…my Fujin Yumi.  With this, I know you can find a way to restore your Yato’s sacred power.
Corrin: I can’t accept something so precious! Not after all I’ve done to you…
Takumi: Take it. I won’t accept no for an answer. You’re the only one I can count on… Though it pains me, those of us here are powerless to affect your world. Please…I need you to set me free.
Corrin: Takumi… I won’t let you down.  I vow on your precious Fujin Yumi to free your body, no matter what! 
Takumi: Thank you, Corrin. I wonder…what it would have been like to fight on the same side as you. I always wished we could have been close, as you are with your Nohrian siblings. Right up until my last moments, I wanted so badly to call you my brother/sister. To look up to you and love you…and never allow anything to come between us. I wish I had told you that before I died. While there was still a chance… I was just so stubborn, so hurt. I couldn’t admit those feelings even to myself. For that, I am truly sorry. I’m so sorry for letting you slip away, dear brother/sister.
Corrin: Takumi…I’m sorry too. I caused you so much pain. The truth is, I longed to have you accept me as your brother/sister too. I never let go of the dream that after the war we could all be together again… I’m so sorry things turned out the way they did.
Takumi: It’s all right, Corrin. We finally got to say all the things we needed to say. You have done more than enough. My heart… It’s finally at peace. Thank you, Brother/Sister…
Corrin: Takumi!!
Ryoma: You can do this, Corrin. Why do you think I entrusted you with saving everyone? It is because you have a pure heart. Kind and strong. You have suffered much and endured much sadness in your life. But now is not the time to look back. Wake up and stand strong. Put one foot in front of the other and press onward. Fight with all your heart to end this war. The Yato chose you for a reason. You can do this. I believe in you.
Corrin: I won’t let you down, Ryoma. I’ll fight as though you are fighting beside me. And this time, I’ll keep my promise to you. I won’t give up! As for you…please rest peacefully, Brother, and watch over us and your kingdom.
Mikoto: Oh, Corrin… You’re so sweet when you’re dreaming. Just like the little girl/boy I held so long ago… All that time, I longed to be near you, to watch you grow. I’m so grateful for these fleeting moments with you. I will cherish them always. No matter where you go or what you do… No matter who stands at your side… Know that I will always, always love you. When we next meet here, I look forward to seeing the great man/woman you’ve grown into.
Corrin: I will do all I can to make you proud. That’s a promise, Mother.
Mikoto: Thank you, my sweet child. Hearing you call me that…means everything to me. Go now… I will watch the rest of your journey unfold from afar.

Mikoto: Safe travels, Corrin.
Ryoma: Show them what you’re made of, Corrin!
Takumi: We’ll all be together again someday, Corrin! Good-bye…

Corrin: Good-bye everyone! Until we meet again!!

Lilith: Hello, Lady/Lord Corrin.
Corrin: Lilith!!
Lilith:  It’s time for you to return home. Please take my hand.
Corrin: Thank you, Lilith. 

Lilith: Your hand is so warm, Corrin. Just like it always was. I can feel your kindness radiating through at the slightest touch. I always recall how gentle you were when you rescued me… And how kind you were to me, even though you were locked away from the world… And how bravely you fought against those who would harm the ones you love… I love everything about you, my friend. I hope you know that…
Corrin: Lilith… My dear friend, I love you too. I always will.
Lilith: Thank you, Lady/Lord Corrin. These are our last moments together… I have to let you go now. But I won’t be sad! You were so brave when I died, so I’ll be brave for you too. I wish you the best of luck, Corrin, and all the happiness in the world!
Corrin: Good-bye, Lilith! And thank you! …

Corrin: ... I’m going back…back to where I was before…  My battle is not yet won. I must keep pushing forward! Fujin Yumi… Please, hear my plea!  Lend my shattered Yato your power! Allow me to lay your master’s body to rest. For Takumi!!
Takumi: That light!!
Corrin: Thank you, Fujin Yumi… Thank you, Takumi…
Xander: Corrin! Everyone, Corrin has returned to us!
Corrin: I’m so sorry, everyone! I’m back where I belong now. Ryoma, Takumi, and the others helped me find my way back here. Back to you. I’m ready to fight!
Camilla: This is so wonderful! My darling Corrin has come back to me!
Leo: I knew you wouldn’t fall so easily. I taught you too well, haha.
Elise: I was so worried I wouldn’t get to hug you again! I’m SO HAPPY!!

Takumi: No…forgiveness… Corrin!! No matter…how long it takes… I…will…KiLL…yOu!!
Corrin: !! 
Takumi: What?!
Corrin: It will not break, beast. This sacred blade will never be shattered by evil again! The power of Takumi’s Fujin Yumi…and the love of everyone I’ve fought with and for… They are all locked inside my Yato! That means it will never falter…and neither will I!
Takumi: My Fujin Yumi…has…betrayed me?!
Corrin: No! The Fujin Yumi doesn’t belong to you. It belongs to my brother! Takumi, that weapon’s true master, died because of YOU!  I chose this path, and I will walk it until the very end. I will make things right again! I WILL defeat you and keep all the promises I made to my loved ones!
Takumi: I will…kill you…filthy Nohrian!! I am…the true…Hoshidan prince… I am…Takumi!! I aM tAkUmI!! I will defend my Hoshido…and destroy Nohr. All Nohrians must die! ALL OF YOU! DIE, DIE DIIIIEEEE!!
Corrin: This is it! Takumi, I’m sorry it took us so long to finally see eye to eye… But I will save both your kingdom and mine, I promise! This will be my… No… This will be OUR final battle!!

@Battle 
Azura: I’m so sorry, Takumi. If I had only been by your side, I might have realized what was happening sooner. Perhaps I could have found a way to save you. I know every choice we make has consequences… I chose to follow Corrin, but did I sacrifice you to do so? 
Azura: Regardless, I know what I must do now. I have to make this up to you. I didn’t plan on ever doing this again… But I will now use my forbidden song to weaken the curse and help free you. Once I use this power… Takumi, Ryoma… I wonder if you’ll be upset at me for joining you so soon. Or maybe you’ll be happy to see me too... 
Takumi: GAAAAHHH!! Wh-what is…that song…?! My power is…fading… But why? WHY?! No one…loves me… They’re always getting in…my way…!!

@Boss 
Takumi: HAH! I will kill... my enemies... KILL THEM! KILL!!

Takumi: I will... I must... Kill... Betray... ...

%Corrin,Takumi 
Takumi: I will kill you…Corrin… This time…for keeps…
Corrin: Hang in there just a bit longer, Takumi. I’ll set your spirit free… I promise to make good on your dying wish, my brother!

@End 
Corrin: Ryoma, Takumi… I fulfilled my promise. Rest in peace now, my brother.
Takumi: … Th…thank…you…my…brother/sister…
Corrin:  !!  Takumi?!

Takumi: !!! ...
Corrin: Takumi… Good-bye. You freed my soul too, Brother. Thank you. 

Corrin: *sigh* I wonder… What was it that possessed the bodies of King Garon and Takumi? Can sorrow and anger grow so strong they create a monster all their own? Or is there some force beyond our understanding manipulating us all?
Xander: Alas, such questions are not meant to be answered by mortals like us. All I know is that the war is finally over. You did well, Corrin.
Corrin: Xander… Thank you. Many sacrifices were made along the way, but now this world will finally know peace. I think that alone gives great meaning to all we have done…and all we have lost.
Xander: Agreed. Whether others would say your course of action was wrong or right… It was your choice, and your pure heart never led you astray. That is the only justice one can hope for in this world. Now, in memory of all the lives that were lost to this senseless war… We must create a bright future for the whole word to share.
Corrin: You’re right. And that’s just what we’ll do! But wait… Something’s not right. Where’s Azura? She was here just a moment ago… Has anyone seen her?
Elise: She was just here! Where did she go?! Azura! Where are you?!
Camilla: That’s odd… Where could she have run off to?
Leo: She must be somewhere in the castle. This was once her home, after all. Perhaps there’s something she wanted to see or do now that she’s returned.
Corrin: Hmm…
Xander: Don’t worry, Corrin. We’ll find her. But first we need to locate all remaining soldiers and tell them the war is over.
Corrin: Oh! You’re right. We’ll probably find her along the way. Let’s do it! 

Corrin: …What is this strange feeling I have? I can’t help feeling…like I’ve seen Azura for the last time. Hmm… I’m probably just still wound up from the battle. That’s all it is…

@Dialogue 
Gunter: From here forward, let it be known that Garon, King of Nohr…is to be succeeded by Prince Xander, Nohr’s crown prince and rightful heir. King Xander will rule over Nohr and guide us in this new era of peace. Please, my liege… Accept this crown as a symbol of your reign.
Xander: Thank you, Gunter. As king, I vow to rule with dignity and kindness…and to always lead our beloved Nohr down the path of peace.

Corrin: Xander! You’re a king now! I’ve never met anyone more worthy of that title than you.
Leo: Yes, the role fits you nicely. Here’s to a fresh start for the kingdom of Nohr! With you at the helm, I know our kingdom will rise to greatness once more.
Camilla: I just know our Xander will bring hope and prosperity back to this land!
Elise: *sniffle* I wish Azura could have seen Xander’s coronation ceremony…
Corrin: Me too, Elise…
Camilla: I can’t believe she ran off like that, right when we finally won the war! I can’t imagine why she left… But I hope wherever she is, that she’s happy.
Leo: Hmph! If she was going to leave us, she could have at least said good-bye. Instead, she disappeared like a wave upon the ocean. Fitting, I suppose…
Corrin: Like a wave upon the ocean…
Elise: Oh! OH!! It looks like Xander’s about to make a speech, heehee!
Camilla: His first speech as king! Let’s listen very quietly, Elise.
Elise: OK, heehee. 

Xander: Thank you, fellow Nohrians, for joining me in celebration today. The war is finally over, and we have formed a new alliance with Hoshido. Though once enemies, our kingdoms will now strive for peace together. Since the war began, and long before, both Nohr and Hoshido were in agony. Freedoms were oppressed, possessions were plundered, the land was ravaged. Rebellions and uprisings tore our great kingdom apart. Our world was in pain. I never wish to see that happen again… Not to anyone. I won’t allow it. As such, all tribes and other peoples of Nohr shall be granted autonomy. We will not seek to expand our borders by infringing upon Hoshidan land. Instead, we shall strive to build a foundation of trust. Both kingdoms will do all we can to plant a seed of mutual respect. In the years to come, I look forward to watching that seed grow. We have a long road ahead of us. It will not be easy, but it is worth treading. On this day, as I assume my father’s throne, I vow to steady our course. The night sky is dark, but that is what allows the stars to shine so brilliantly. As king, I hope to be the light that guides Nohr out of this long night. I swear I will not rest until our beloved home awakens to a brighter tomorrow. For the great people of Nohr… Here’s to a future of peace and prosperity!

Corrin: That was a beautiful speech, Xander. I’m certain we’ll be able to do what Father never had the chance to. We’re going to build the kind of world that people can live happily in. Some day in the far-off future, people will sing songs about all this!
Elise: That was amazing, Xander. You sounded just like a king! You’re so cool, Big Brother!
Leo: Elise!! Keep your voice down! And stop waving your arms like a fool! Are you actively trying to bring shame on the entire royal family?!
Camilla: Haha, calm down, Leo. Why not let her be? In any case, your voice got rather loud as well. Everyone’s staring at you.
Leo: Ah… Well…
Corrin: Hahaha, check out that nasty stare Gunter’s giving you! We’re all going to get an earful about this later.
Gunter: EHEM. If I could have everyone’s attention… The coronation ceremony is now complete. May King Xander reign in glory over our great kingdom forever!

Corrin: King Xander… How wonderful…

Corrin: Well done, Xander!
Xander: What do you think, little prince/princess? Did I sound like a worthy king?
Corrin: Absolutely! Your speech was inspiring, and you looked so cool and powerful up there! You should have heard the fuss Elise was making!
Elise: Yeah, but mean ol’ Gunter scolded me about it afterward…
Camilla: Oh, darling, but his lecture only lasted a minute or two. He went easy on you.
Hinoka: I dunno—he looked pretty ticked off to me…
Sakura: I would have cried my eyes out after a lecture like that…
Corrin: Hinoka! Sakura! I’m so happy to see you. Thanks for coming today.
Hinoka: No thanks required, Corrin. Our kingdoms signed a permanent peace treaty, so we can visit whenever we want. Of course I’d be here for such a big event. I’ll come running whenever you need me.
Corrin: Haha, I know. Thank you…
Elise: Hey, Sakura! Did you see me waving at you? Did you?!
Sakura: Y-yes… But isn’t that part of why you got scolded? Your “excessive” waving?
Elise: Heh, so you heard that? Stupid Gunter…
Hinoka: I thought you looked energetic and happy, just as a princess should be. But I hope you act just a bit more refined at MY coronation ceremony.
Elise: Hee hee, if you insist!
Camilla: So are you to be the next queen of Hoshido, Hinoka? That’s lovely. You’ll make a truly stunning queen.
Sakura: It’s all been really challenging for Hinoka. She’s training to behave more like a queen, but it’s going terribly!
Hinoka: SAKURA! Don’t go around telling people that! I just…can’t help it. I never thought it would fall to me to rule Hoshido. I always took it for granted that Ryoma would eventually be king. And after him, I suppose I expected to pass on the honor to Takumi. I never had any interest in the throne. My brothers were the born leaders…
Corrin: I’m so sorry, Hinoka. I miss them too.
Hinoka: Corrin… No, it’s fine. It is what it is. To be honest, I still battle with feelings of hatred toward the Nohrian army. The way they violated our kingdom for so many years… I won’t soon forget it. But in time, I know even those wounds will heal. I trust you and Xander to prevent such things from ever happening again. In my heart, I know Ryoma and Takumi don’t hold any grudges either.
Corrin: Hinoka…
Hinoka: You should know, however, that there are many Hoshidans who still don’t trust you. I will do all I can to convince the masses, but change won’t come easy. I advise all of you to exercise caution when visiting Hoshido.
Xander: Understood. After all the evil that has been done in the name of Nohr, it’s only natural. The lives that my kingdom has taken are a burden I shall bear for the rest of my life. The blood that was spilled, the tears that fell, the hearts that were broken… For all of that and more, I am truly sorry.
Hinoka: Please, Prince…erm, I mean, King Xander. You can’t take the blame for all that. As queen, it will be my job to help clear up our misconceptions about Nohrians. It will take time, but it will happen. I will make sure of it.
Sakura: I’ll do my best to help out too!
Corrin: Hinoka… Sakura…
Hinoka: Corrin… When tensions finally subside in Hoshido… Well, I want you to feel free to return to the castle anytime you like. Ryoma and Takumi may not be there anymore…but we are. I want you to feel at home there so we can all spend time together as siblings.
Corrin: Thank you, Hinoka. I promise to come visit often!
Hinoka: Good. Well…it’s getting late. We should be heading back. On behalf of Hoshido, allow me to thank you for inviting us here today. Sakura, will you please fetch my pegasus?
Sakura: Sure! I look forward to seeing you all at the coronation ceremony in Hoshido!
Elise: I can’t wait! See you soon!
Corrin: …Off they go.
Xander: Yes, but you’ll see them again soon. They are your siblings, after all.
Corrin: Yes. I’m truly blessed to have so many wonderful siblings in my life. And now I can spend as much time as I want with all of them!
Camilla: Shall we head to the banquet now?
Corrin: Banquet? What banquet?
Leo: Oh, right! This is your first time at an important Nohrian event. In Nohr, whenever something big happens at the castle, we hold a royal banquet. But this time it’s going to be a huge event that spans the whole capital. Xander decided he wanted to provide food for the whole town, not just the royals. Now everyone can celebrate the occasion and enjoy the banquet together.
Corrin: Wow! That sounds amazing!
Elise: Doesn’t it! I’m gonna serve up yummy food to all kinds of different people!
Camilla: But you can’t carry it all by yourself, right? I’ll go with you.
Leo: I, for one, shall busy myself by entertaining the lords and ladies. We must not neglect making a good impression on them as well.
Xander: I’m counting on all of you tonight. I doubt I’ll be able to stray too far from the throne.
Felicia: Time to get cooking and show everyone the true meaning of Nohrian cuisine!
Jakob: I’ll make sure to set aside a few plates of your favorite foods, milady/milord.
Kaze: Hmm, I wonder what kind of foods are served at a Nohrian banquet…
Silas: The capital is brimming with jubilation. This is the Nohr I always dreamed of!

Corrin: Haha, this is going to be perfect. Let’s all enjoy ourselves tonight! Seeing Nohr filled with so many smiling faces is a dream come true. We sacrificed so much to arrive at this victory we’re now happily celebrating. The path I chose was difficult, but I now know it wasn’t the wrong one. Even if a path looks dark up ahead, you must keep walking until you see the light. Thank you, all of you, for believing in me. Having all of you here at my side fills my heart with joy. 

Corrin: Phew! Everyone seems to be having a great time at the banquet. It doesn’t seem like it will stop anytime soon. I’d better take a little break…. Hmmm… This place… It reminds me of the lake where I first met Azura. I wonder where she is right now. Azura…

Corrin: !! That song!

Azura: …♪ 
Corrin: Azura! It’s really you! You’ve come back! Where have you been all this time?!
Azura: …
Corrin: Azura?
Azura: Hello, Corrin. What do you think of my song?
Corrin: What do I think of it? It’s um…very pretty?
Azura: I see. But if you listen carefully…you might sense a power you didn’t notice before.
Corrin: Really?
Azura: Yes. I’m sure you’ll feel it this time. Close your eyes…and listen with your heart.
Corrin: But I don’t—
Azura: Please, Corrin. Just do as I say.
Corrin: OK…  … Azura… I’m really happy you decided to come back to us. Just having you by my side again reminds me of all we’ve been through. You were always there for me, even when my whole world was falling apart. If it weren’t for you, I probably would have died a long time ago. To me you’re—

Corrin: …Azura? 

Corrin: Was that…an illusion?
Azura:  Thank you, Corrin. I know we’ll meet again one day…
Corrin:  Azura!!...

Corrin: Yes. I’m sure we will. And when we do, I’ll tell you how much you mean to me……
Xander: Corrin! Enjoying some alone time, are we? I’m about to lead a group of nobles into town. Will you join us?
Corrin: Of course! Sounds fun! Hey, Xander! Wait up! Haha, don’t you dare leave without me! 

Elise: Come on—hurry up!

Camilla: Oh! Let me help. 
Leo: Did you oversleep again? Better hurry up then.

Xander:  You’re just in time.  You’ve always had a gift for that. No doubt you always will.
Camilla: * chuckles affectionately *
Leo: Hmph.
Elise: Hahaha!
Xander:  There was no sense in this war, only madness and greed.

Xander: War is monstrous. We are told to make war to support our country. But…it’s a lie.  Told by those who profit from bloodshed. In my reign as Nohr’s new king, I vow to seek peace and understanding.

Xander:  With you to guide my hand. @Intro 
Iago: King Garon, it appears as though the Hoshidans have crossed Mount Garou.
Garon: I am aware of that. It seems your trick with the explosives may be growing stale. Running out of ideas, are we?
Iago: My apologies, Your Majesty. I take full responsibility for this misstep. However, I assure you that I have more tricks up my sleeve. I'll redeem myself—you'll see!
Garon: I certainly hope so.
Iago: Yes...er...of course. I plan on ambushing Corrin and his/her troops shortly.
Garon: Do as you wish. But understand that this is the last failure I will tolerate.
Iago: Certainly, Your Majesty.

Garon: Pitiful.

Corrin: Finally...some sign of civilization. Even though this place looks deserted.
Ryoma: Yes. I believe this place is known as Macarath. It's a town known for stage shows and gambling, much like Nestra. However, it seems as though the war has put a damper on business.
Corrin: That's just as well. We don't have any time to waste. We should probably keep to the outskirts as much as possible.
Ryoma: Agreed.
Takumi: *cough* *cough*
Corrin: Takumi? Are you feeling OK?
Takumi: Urgh... Yes, everything's fine...
Corrin: You don't seem very steady on your feet. Perhaps we should rest.
Takumi: No, really, I'm fine. *cough* *cough* Hurrrk...

Corrin: Takumi! Can you hear me?! Someone, help!
Sakura: Oh no...how is this possible?
Corrin: What is it, Sakura? What's wrong with him?
Sakura: I...I think he has a rare fever that's specific to this region. Do you see these spots on his throat? They're one of the unique symptoms. It's extremely s-serious! He could die if we don't treat it immediately.
Corrin: Gods... How could this have happened?
Sakura: It's possible he contracted it from one of the wolfskin. They're known scavengers...and carrion is loaded with icky germs. I'm s-sorry. I should've noticed his symptoms a lot earlier.
Takumi: *cough* *cough* Don't worry, Sakura. It's not what you think it is. It'll probably just go away on its own. Or...maybe Azura can try singing for me! Didn't that work before?
Azura: I'm sorry, Takumi, but my song isn't a miracle cure. It won't help with this.
Takumi: Oh...now you tell me.
Sakura: If I remember correctly, there's and herb that can reduce the fever considerably. But I have no idea where to find any.
Ryoma: Hmm... The Palace Macarath should have a well-stocked apothecary.
Corrin: But if it's a Nohrian palace, won't it be filled with...you know...Nohrians?
Ryoma: Yes, of course. However, I notice we haven't seen many people around so far. I think it's reasonable to assume the palace will not be fully staffed. Especially when King Garon isn't around.
Corrin: Well, I can't think of a better idea. Let's check it out.
Ryoma: Very well. Follow me. My intelligence reports are highly detailed.
Corrin: Will you be able to walk, Takumi?
Takumi: Nnngh. Yes, as short way at least. Just put my bow in my hand if we run into any Nohrian scum. Even in this state, I'll take a few of 'em out with me.

Corrin: So this is one of Garon's palaces. It does seem oddly deserted.
Ryoma: We've been lucky so far. Garon wouldn't leave the place completely abandoned. We should remain on high alert.
Corrin: Understood. Is everyone ready?
Ryoma: Yes. Now, let's not dwadle as we enter the palace. There may be roving guards. Let's move one three. One...two... Three!
Corrin: Come on, everyone!

???: Intruders? Show yourselves!
Corrin: It looks like we have company. Brace yourselves and be ready for anything. Garon could have left a monster waiting for us. Or a trap. Or...

Corrin: ...Flora?!
Flora: Lord/Lady Corrin?
Jakob: What are you doing here?!
Felicia: Sister!
Flora: Why are all of YOU here? This is super dangerous! There's an unused room nearby—let's get out of here and talk.

Flora: All right. We should be safe here for a while. It's so good to see you again, Lord/Lady Corrin!
Corrin: You too, Flora. I miss everyone from Nohr. Except King Garon, of course. Anyway, what are you doing here?
Flora: After you left, everyone in the Northern Fortress was sent away. I got my orders to come here, and that was it.
Corrin: I'm so sorry. I know my decision impacted a lot of people.
Flora: It's OK. I'm actually happy to be here. Your decision really opened my eyes to what was going on. Now I'm just glad I don't have to see King Garon every day...
Corrin: I see. I'm glad to hear it, Flora.
Flora: So...how did the rest of you end up here?
Ryoma: I'm sorry, but it's a long story, and right now we need medicine for my brother. Can you help us?
Flora: Yes, of course. Nobody works at the apothecary anymore, but it's fully stocked. I'm sure I can sneak out whatever you need.
Ryoma: You'd do that for us?
Flora: Of course! Any friend of Lord/Lady Corrin's is a friend of mine. After I get the medicine, I'll show you how to sneak out the back door of the palace.
Ryoma: Thank you, Flora. You may be saving my brother's life.

Corrin: Iago!
Iago: Hello, Corrin. Happy to see me again?
Corrin: What do you want? You're massively outnumbered here.
Iago: Oh ho! So quickly you begin speaking of battle. Where's the witty banter? One mustn't leap straight into battle without a little banter. It's uncivilized! Also, as usual, you're badly misinformed. You're the one who's outnumbered.
Corrin: How did you know we were here? Were you the one who attacked the hideout in Cheve?
Iago: Oh, I'd love to take credit for that, but I'm afraid it belongs to one of your friends.
Corrin: What are you saying?
Flora: ...
Iago: Ah, dearest Flora. I didn't realize you were here. Kicked out of Garon's inner circle, were you?
Flora: I don't have anything to say to you.
Iago: Ooh, saucy! I like it. Maybe I'll kill you last.
Flora: Iago, I'm ordering you to leave at once! I am an official employee of this palace, and you are NOT. Remember, this is King Garon's royal villa. What would he say about you destroying it with a battle?
Iago: Oh, you're so wrong. I can do anything, as long as I get results.

Iago: Like this—see?

Flora: Eyaaaahh!
Iago: That's for talking back. Now, who's next? You'll all bend the knee before I'm finished.

Flora: Lord/Lady Corrin...RUN!

Flora: Urgh...

Felicia: No! Flora!
Iago: She's just taking a little nap. Now. I'm feeling all bantered out. Let's get down to business.
Corrin: You'll pay for this, Iago.
Iago: Wonderful. A pithy final statement from our hero. Unfortunately this is no fairy tale, Prince/Princess Corrin. King Garon would like your head on a platter, and I'm not one to disappoint him.

Corrin: How's this for pithy? GET HIM!

@Boss 
Iago: Pfft. What do you think you're doing, minion? Bring on Corrin!

%Corrin,Iago 
Iago: And here we are, at last. I've been waiting for you.
Corrin: I'm done talking. It's time to finish this.
Iago: Oh, I agree. HAH!

@End 
Corrin: This is it, Iago. Now, I just need to know one thing. Answer truthfully, and I'll be merciful. Who told you that we were here?
Iago: *cough* *cough* Heh...
Corrin: I assure you, you have nothing to laugh about. Tell me now! Or else...
Iago: Or else you'll have to doubt your own people. Right?
Corrin: What?!
Iago: You, betrayer of Nohr, are now being betrayed yourself. Now, I think I'd like to savor the irony just a while longer, so... Good-bye!

Corrin: How can he just...disappear...like that?
Iago: When will you learn, young prince/princess? You think that was really me? I almost feel bad for you. From this moment on, you'll never be able to let your guard down. Who will be the first to stab you in the back? Who can you really trust?
Corrin: Shut up...
Iago: Very well, Corrin... Good luck.
Corrin: Ugh...

Flora: Ungh...hrm...

Corrin: Flora, are you all right?
Flora: Uh...yeah. I think so. What happened to Iago?
Corrin: He's gone. We had him for a second there, but then he slipped away. In any case, he can't hurt you anymore.
Flora: Oh, thank goodness.
Corrin: Unfortunately, he left us with some rather troubling words. He implied there's another traitor among us.

Takumi: Come on, Corrin! Do you really believe that? He's just trying to mess with your head.
Corrin: You're probably right. But I have to admit...I do feel a bit uneasy.
Takumi: That's not like you at all. You usually trust everybody!
Corrin: I know, but it's just that...
Takumi: *huff* *huff* *huff*
Corrin: No! Is your fever coming on stronger?

Takumi: I feel so...sluggish...
Corrin: Takumi!
Sakura: Oh, this isn't good—his fever is s-spiking. We really need that medicine!
Flora: All right, now that Iago's gone, I should be able to get into the apothecary. But...I still don't know what I'm looking for.

Sakura: O-of course. I'll come with you. Let's go!

Takumi: Zzz... Zzz...
Corrin: It looks like he's sleeping soundly. So the medicine must have worked.
Sakura: Y-yes. He should be fine now. He just needs plenty of rest.
Corrin: Thank you, Sakura.
Flora: Yay! Oh, I'm glad he's doing better.
Corrin: Yes, thank you for your help, Flora. I hate to think about what could have happened if you hadn't been here.
Flora: Please, don't mention it. So...what are you going to do now, Lord/Lady Corrin? Iago knows exactly where you are...
Corrin: Yes, that's true. But I think we have to stick to the original plan and head to the capital.
Flora: Oh...I see. I guess I was kind of hoping that you'd stop by my village first.
Corrin: Really? Why?
Flora: To be honest, I don't feel safe here anymore. I want to go home! But it makes sense for you, too. The Ice Tribe village isn't controlled by Nohr. You could take shelter there and plan your next move. And Takumi could get some much-needed rest.
Corrin: But what if King Garon finds out that your village is cooperating with us? Aren't you worried about what could happen?
Felicia: I think the village will be all right. It's full of strong warriors! If soldiers were to invade, the villagers would simply freeze them in place!
Corrin: Heh, I guess that's true.
Felicia: Ooh, this is exciting! I've always wanted to show you my home village, Lord/Lady Corrin. Remember how we used to dream about this, Flora?
Flora: Yes. Yes, we did...
Corrin: Very well. This should throw the Nohrian army off our track, at least for a while. Thank you for the offer, Flora.
Flora: Of course! It's my pleasure.
Corrin: Let's give Takumi a few more minutes to rest and then get moving.
Takumi: Zzz... Zzz... Ungh... Be careful...
Corrin: Takumi? What do you mean?
Takumi: Brother/Sister...something's not right... Look behind the curtain... Ughhh...
Corrin: He's delirious! Did that make sense to anyone else?
Takumi: Zzz... Zzz...
Corrin: That must be some fever dream he's having...
Sakura: I-I don't know, Corrin. He sounded lucid for a second there...
Corrin: Yes. I suppose he did...@Intro 
Azura: This way, Corrin.
Corrin: What is this place?
Azura: This is Fort Jinya. Sakura is already here, tending to the wounded soldiers and citizens. Let's go and help her.
Corrin: By all means.

Sakura: Corrin! Thank you for coming!
Corrin: Is everything OK, Sakura? I'm here to help.
Sakura: Yes, but thank goodness you're here. We're really short staffed.
Hana: Hello Lord/Lady Corrin. I'm Hana. Lady Sakura has told me all about you.
Subaki: And I'm Subaki. It's a pleasure to meet you Lord/Lady Corrin.
Corrin: Nice to meet both of you. I'm afraid you probably know a lot more about me than I know about either of you.
Sakura: That's OK, Corrin. I'm sure you'll be fast friends in no time. Hana and Subaki are my retainers—always close at hand and ready to help.
Corrin: Ah, I see. Well, we should have plenty of time to relax and get to know—
Azura: Corrin! We have trouble! Nohrian forces are approaching!
Corrin: Seriously? We haven't even been here five minutes.
Azura: Yes, well...the Nohrian soldiers haven't wasted any time surrounding us.
Corrin: Unbelievable.
Sakura: I can't believe they'd attack at a time like this... We're using most of the fort as a makeshift hospital—there's no military target here! Why can't they just leave us alone?
Hana: Don't worry, milady. I can handle this.
Subaki: With my help, of course. If you'd like, Lady Sakura, you may remain with the wounded while we resolve this.
Sakura: I'll consider it. Thank you. Both of you.
Corrin: Well then. I guess we'll be getting to know each other in a hurry. Nothing like a life-or-death situation to cut right through the small talk.
Hana: As you command, Lord/Lady Corrin! As Lady Sakura's lead retainer, it will be my pleasure to take your orders.
Subaki: And as Lady Sakura's supervising retainer, I, too, welcome your leadership.
Hana: Supervising retainer? That's not a thing.
Subaki: Well, neither is a lead retainer. I don't remember you getting a promotion.
Hana: Lady Sakura and I have been best friends since childhood! I've ALWAYS been her lead retainer.
Subaki: I'm not sure this is the time or place for such a discussion, but... I believe my results on the battlefield speak for themselves.
Hana: Oh, so is that why you neglect all your nonbattle duties? Is that why I'm the one maintaining all of your gear and scouting the enemy?
Corrin: Guys, um...
Sakura: Knock it off, you two! You're embarrassing yourselves—and me! Corrin, please don't let this juvenile display deceive you. Hana and Subaki are both extremely capable on the battlefield. And they're both going to set aside this petty argument and help you, right?
Hana: Of course, milady.
Subaki: Certainly. Expect perfection, and you will not be disappointed.
Corrin: Excellent. I'm glad to have your support.
Azura: We should get moving and face the intruders head-on. We must protect our wounded!
Corrin: Of course.

@Battle 
Silas: Ho, Corrin! Is that really you?
Corrin: Who's asking?
Silas: Yes, that's the voice I remember! It IS really you!
Corrin: Please, drop the act. We don't know each other.
Silas: You honestly don't remember? It's me, Silas! We were best friends as children.
Corrin: I don't remember much, I'm afraid.
Azura: Corrin, please be careful. This could be a trap of some sort.
Silas: I promise that I'm telling the truth. However, it seems we are destined to clash swords regardless of our past...

@Recruit-Battle 
Silas: Don't take this personally. I'm just following orders from King Garon...

Silas: It didn't have to be this way...

%Corrin,Silas 
Silas: It's been too long, Corrin. I never imagined we'd reunite under these circumstances. I became a knight in hopes of seeing you again, but...
Corrin: Silas...I simply don't remember my past.
Silas: That's OK. You can still come back to Nohr with me. It's not too late!
Corrin: I'm afraid you're wrong. I'm way beyond the point of no return.

@End 
Silas: Go on. Kill me.
Corrin: No. This isn't right.
Silas: What are you waiting for?
Corrin: You seemed hesitant to attack us, even as you led your army into battle. Why were you holding back? Because we were friends?
Silas: Ugh...
Corrin: Aren't you here on King Garon's orders? Did you even intend to defeat us?
Silas: Corrin... some things are more important than following orders.
Corrin: You're going to need to be clearer than that, or I will finish you off!
Silas: Do as you must. I value an oath I made long ago far more than my own life. I still can't believe you don't remember. We used to play together. You always said how badly you wanted to see the world... So one day I made us a picnic and snuck you out for a few hours to explore. I even packed your favorite meal: Surf and turf! I knew taking you beyond the walls was forbidden, but... I also knew how much it would mean to you. The guards tried to execute me when we returned but you wouldn't let them do it.
Corrin: Gods! That does ring a bell...
Silas: My life belongs to you, friend. Do as you must.
Corrin: Silas... Silas... Yes, of course! I do remember a childhood friend by that name. One who helped me explore outside the walls that bound me.
Silas: Yes! That's it! What else?
Corrin: Only bits and pieces at the moment... But I have a proposal for you. You say you would sacrifice your own life for mine?
Silas: Indeed.
Corrin: Very well. Then join forces with me. I know you are a knight of Nohr... and you may not believe what I'm about to say... But King Garon has gone absolutely mad! He gave me a cursed sword and sent me off to be captured by the Hoshidans. Knowing, of course, that I would be brought before my mother. She was killed when the sword exploded. I would have been too...
Silas: I...I don't believe it...
Corrin: It's all part of his grand plan to escalate this conflict into a full-blown war. I can't forgive his actions against Hoshido. And I will never return to Nohr.
Silas: ...
Corrin: You must think I'm manipulating you.
Silas: No, Corrin... I believe you. You've spared my life twice now. I have no reason to doubt your story.
Corrin: Then you will join us?
Silas: Yes. Perhaps together we can bring peace to this world someday.
Corrin: That is my aim, Silas. I promise that I will never deviate from the cause.
Silas: I can't believe this is happening!

Saizo: Lady Sakura, we've got bad news.
Orochi: This is an emergency!
Sakura: Saizo, Orochi... What happened to you? You're both wounded!
Orochi: Our wounds are nothing. but as for Lord Ryoma and Lord Takumi—
Sakura: What?! What happened to them?
Orochi: They're missing. Last anyone saw them, they were headed to Izumo. It's possible they were captured en route. I hate to think of the alternative...
Sakura: No! No, no, no, no...
Kaze: Lady Sakura, please take a deep breath. Saizo, Orochi... Please tell me you're joking.
Saizo: Yes, I'm well known for my japes, aren't I? I blame myself. I should have been at lord Ryoma's side every step of the way.
Orochi: Pardon me, but you must be Lord/Lady Corrin, yes? I'm Orochi. I used to serve as a diviner for Lady Mikoto. It seems it would serve a common purpose for our army to join forces. Our tactician, Yukimura, is readying the troops to march on Izumo. Time is of the essence! Will you join us in search of Lord Ryoma and Lord Takumi?
Corrin: Yes, of course. We'll support you in any way that we can.
Orochi: Thank you. Corrin.
Sakura: I'm coming with you.
Kaze: Lady Sakura, I strongly recommend that you reconsider. The battlefield near the border is highly dangerous, and—
Sakura: I don't care! I can't just stay here and do nothing. If there's anything I can do to help my brothers, I need to be in position to do it.
Corrin: I'm so sorry, Sakura. But I'm afraid I agree with Kaze...
Azura: Corrin... Sakura just lost her mother, and now her brothers are missing. It's understandable she would want to accompany us. With my help I believe we can provide adequate protection...
Corrin: Very well. I won't try to stop you, Sakura. I just hope you understand the risks.
Sakura: Thank you, Corrin. I do.
Corrin: Will you be joining us as well, Silas?
Silas: Yes, I will join you. Although, I must say that I didn't expect to be pressed into service THIS quickly...
Saizo: You can't be serious, Corrin. You'd really allow this backstabbing Nohrian scum to accompany us.
Kaze: This is not your call, Saizo. And besides, if we abandon him here, he dies. That is not the Hoshidan way.
Saizo: Is the Hoshidan way to allow a potential spy access to our party? I will follow Corrin's lead...for now. But I will keep my eyes wide open.
Orochi: Saizo!
Kaze: Brother, Corrin spared my life when I was a prisoner in Nohr. I assure you that we can trust his/her judgement.
Saizo: Oh, please. A five-year-old wouldn't be fooled by such an obvious setup.
Corrin: I appreciate your skepticism, Saizo. I hope you'll give me a chance to prove you wrong.
Saizo: Words mean little. Actions are what count. We'll see what happens.
Azura: Corrin, we really must press on. Every second counts!
Corrin: Right, let's get moving.@Intro 
Corrin: Ah, we're finally here. Can't say I'm completely used to sea travel yet.
Kotaro: Welcome, Lord/Lady Corrin! We have been waiting for you.
Corrin: You have?
Kotaro: Certainly. Allow me to introduce myself. I am Kotaro, the daimyo of Mokushu.
Corrin: Mokushu?! That's the place Shura mentioned... The country that...
Kotaro: Milord/Milady? Is something amiss?
Corrin: Pardon me, I was just reflecting on our journey here. It was quite eventful. Mokushu lies within Hoshido's territory does it not? Are your certain your people are prepared to ally with Nohr?
Kotaro: Without a doubt, milord/milady. Our people have long been on good terms with Nohr. We always knew we would side with your kingdom when war inevitably broke out.
Corrin: I see. Thank you for your loyalty.
Kotaro: Sorry to rush you after such long journey, but I'd like to show you something. It's the path you'll be using to sneak into Hoshido. This way, milord/milady.

Kotaro: Here we are, milord/milady. This is the quickest and safest route you can take.
Corrin: Thank you, Kotaro. We appreciate all the help we can get.
Kotaro: No problem at all. I would normally invite you back to my castle to rest... But I'm sure you must be in a hurry. Do let me know if there's anything else I can do.
Corrin: The sentiment is appreciated, but you've already done your fair share.
Mokushujin: Lord Kotaro! I have an urgent r-report!!
Kotaro: Calm yourself, man! You're in the presence of Lord/Lady Corrin. Show some respect.
Mokushujin: M-my apologies, sir. But please, I must have your attention! Hoshidan ninja have marched into Mokushu, milord! Our forces are fighting them even now in the forest cave. It's not going well...
Kotaro: Hoshidan ninja?! Dammit, why now?
Mokushujin: They're incredibly skilled, milord. I'm afraid our troops can't hold out much longer... Please, you must send reinforcements right away!
Kotaro: Bah! Very well. I'll figure something out. You are dismissed.
Corrin: Why are the Hoshidans attacking your people, Kotaro?
Kotaro: It has been this way ever since the war escalated. Since then, Hoshidan forces have tries to enter our land with increasing frequency. Though we defend our territory, we have never instigated an attack on Hoshido. These attacks are unprovoked, but there's little we can do to stop them.
Corrin: I thought Hoshido valued peace... Are they punishing you for your loyalty to Nohr?
Kotaro: I'm afraid so, milord/milady. We've been fighting them off for weeks now. I fact...our reserves are nearly depleted at this point. Lord/Lady Corrin...it pains me dearly to ask a favor of you at a time like this. But for my people, I must. If there's any way you could lend us a hand...
Corrin: So be it. After all, your people are suffering because of their allegiance to Nohr. As such, the Nohrian army shall aid your cause. Let's go, before it's too late.
Kotaro: Thank you, milord/milady! The people of Mokushu are forever in your debt!

Xander: Corrin, I have dispatched all of the Hoshidan soldiers in this area.

Azura: I have cleared my area as well.

Elise: We're all done too! Camilla and Leo really showed them what's what, heehee!
Corrin: Good work everyone. We've basically been doing all the fighting so far... Is Mokushu really this short on soldiers? Perhaps we should ask Father to send them some guards...
Kaze: Lord/Lady Corrin, look out!
Corrin: Huh?!

Kaze: What kind of a coward would take aim at Lord/Lady Corrin when he/she isn't looking? What?! It can't be...
Saizo: Kaze? I didn't expect to see you here.
Kaze: Hello, Brother.
Saizo: The fates are cruel, are they not? But I do not wish to battle my twin again.
Kaze: Agreed. It pains me to stand opposite you in battle, Brother.
Saizo: ...Move along, Kaze. For both of our sakes. My business is with the daimyo, not you.
Kaze: I will not stand down. As a soldier of Nohr, I am obligated to protect our allies.
Saizo: You don't know what you're saying Kaze! Siding with Nohr is bad enough... But to protect that devil, Kotaro?! I won't allow it!
Kaze: Why? Has he wronged you somehow?
Saizo: Fool! That man...that monster...he killed our father! Even now he has taken Kagero as a hostage to try and make us surrender. Do you really intend to align yourself with such a dishonorable and despicable man?!
Kaze: He did what?! Kagero...

Kotaro: Well, well, well. So the enemy leader has decided to grace us with his presence. Nicely done, Lord/Lady Corrin. You are as skilled as the rumors imply.
Corrin: Kotaro... We need to talk.
Kotaro: Oh no, please don't let me interrupt. Kill him so we can end this battle.
Corrin: Silence, Kotaro. I need to ask you something. Did you take a ninja named Kagero hostage to try and force Hoshido to surrender?
Kotaro: What?! Of course not, milord/milady! That man is telling stories.
Saizo: My word is my honor, you coward! I swear, I will kill you myself before the day is done!
Kaze: Calm yourself, Brother.
Corrin: If what you say is true, then you won't mind showing me all of your jail cells. Now.
Kotaro: My jail cells? Do you not trust me, milord/milady?
Corrin: If you have done nothing wrong, my request shouldn't be a problem. As an ally of Nohr, I demand you prove the integrity of your word.
Kotaro: Lord/Lady Corrin! ... Hmph. You know, for a mutt, you sure are full of yourself.
Corrin: Kotaro!
Kotaro: Fine, you win. I took a hostage and used her as a bargaining chip. What of it?! A true Nohrian prince/princess would praise me for being so cunning, not threaten me. This is war! Lying and using people is par for the course!
Corrin: You're wrong, Kotaro. That is not how we do things any longer.
Kotaro: Is that so? Tell it to King Garon, you filthy mutt. When Nohr prevails, he has promised me a huge piece of land to expand my kingdom. No one will get in the way of Mokushu's future glory—not even a Nohrian prince/princess!
Xander: ...I see. So your tactics are a product of my father's influence. Pity. Still, I won't allow this to go any further. I refuse to accept your methods. I shall correct your behavior now and forever, by force if necessary.
Kotaro: P-Prince Xander?! No! I won't let this happen...

Xander: Mokushujin soldiers?!
Corrin: We came to your aid because you said you were low on troops. So that was a lie too?
Kotaro: I won't waste any more breath on you. In death, you shall keep my secrets! We'll tell King Garon his darling children died fighting the Hoshidans, heh heh. If you had just kept your mouths shut, you could have lived. Such a shame. Instead you will all be sacrifices on the altar of my grand ambition!
Corrin: Everyone! Prepare for battle!

@Battle 
Saizo: I must...not...fall here... My liege still needs me... For him...I shall retreat.

@Boss
Kotaro: The new kingdom of Mokushu will be built on your graves! Not even King Garon can stop me now, bwaaahahaha!!

Kotaro: No! My ambition... Mokushu's...future...

%Shura,Kotaro
Shura: Heh... So you're the daimyo of Mokushu, eh? We finally meet.
Kotaro: Who are you? I don't know any generic pirates.
Shura: I am Shura, of Kohga. And you will pay for destroying my people!
Kotaro: Aw, so you came here to get revenge? That's precious. I've killed dozens of men like you. Lowly drifters without a home. Don't even bother. Like your pathetic kingdom, you don't stand a chance.
Shura: Killing you will be no bother at all. In fact, I'm looking forward to it. And one day I will rebuild Kohga and undo the damage you caused!
Kotaro: HA! That's rich. I killed all your people. Burned your village to the ground. All of your ninja combined weren't enough to stop me. Yet you think you alone can kill me?! HAHAHAHA!
Shura: We'll see how funny it is when you're begging for mercy. You took everything from me. Before I rebuild, allow me to return the favor.
Kotaro: Ah, a lovely dream. Let that dream comfort you in your last moments. The last remnant of Kohga ends here!
Shura: For my friends and family...for my honor and vengeance...FOR KOHGA!

%Saizo,Kotaro
Saizo: Kotaro of Mokushu...you will now answer to me for your crimes.
Kotaro: I answer to no one. Who are you to suggest otherwise?
Saizo: I am Saizo the Fifth, servant to the Hoshidan royal family.
Kotaro: Saizo...that name sounds familiar. I believe I've murdered others of your pitiful lineage.
Saizo: You—! How dare you! My father was an honorable man.
Kotaro: Honorable? Maybe. Weak? Definitely. That balding old fool had the audacity to lecture me! So naturally...I put an end to his life.
Saizo: I knew you were the one responsible for his death. Coward!
Kotaro: Bwahaha! Isn't this a stroke of luck? To fell both father and son with the same blade... How poetic!
Saizo: Sorry to disappoint, but I'm about to rewrite your poem's ending...
Kotaro: Ha! If you're anything like your father, you won't land a single blow!
Saizo: How's that for not landing a single blow?
Kotaro: Ugh... My dreams... My Kingdom!! *cough* *cough* How could I lose...?! *sputter* ...
Saizo: A fitting end. Father...you have been avenged. May you rest in peace now.

@End 
Saizo: It's over... After all these years, Father's murder has finally been avenged.
Kaze: Saizo... I swear, I did not know. I was told Father died in the line of duty while fighting in Mokushu. All this time... What a burden that knowledge must have been.
Saizo: Yes, Brother. That man killed our father and hid the truth from all. But I knew better. I knew Father was too great a warrior to fall so easily in battle. Still, it took me years of searching to uncover the truth Kotaro buried.
Kaze: Dishonorable scoundrel. No telling how many lives he took without punishment.
Saizo: Indeed. But it's all over now...

Corrin: Hey, Kaze! Saizo! I found the dungeon where they were keeping Kagero.
Saizo: You found her?!
Kagero: Saizo!
Saizo: Kagero! Are you hurt? Make haste, friend. We must return to Lord Ryoma right away.
Kagero: I am in your debt, Saizo. To save me, you even cooperated with the traitorous Lord/Lady Corrin. That can't have been easy...
Saizo: I cooperated with no one. It is pure coincidence that we crossed paths. They were battling our soldiers and even aiding Kotaro at first. Still, I must know... Corrin! Why didn't you take the lives of the soldiers you bested? I thought mercy was not a concept familiar to Nohrians.
Corrin: Then perhaps you don't know us as well as you believe you do. We Nohrians aren't all the same. Just as all ninja aren't as vile as Kotaro.
Saizo: ...Perhaps so, Corrin. In any case, Kagero and my men are alive thanks to you. You also helped me to finally avenge my father's death. For that...I thank you. But do not let our temporary truce fool you. When next we meet, it will be as enemies. At that time, I will not hesitate to take your life.
Corrin: If that is how it must be, Saizo, then so be it. I won't hold back either.
Saizo: Hmph.

Corrin: *sigh*
Kaze: Milord/Milady... We should be on our way.
Corrin: Kaze... I'm so sorry. Siding with me has brought you nothing but heartache.
Kaze: One cannot escape heartache, milord/milady. No matter the path we choose to follow.
Corrin: But if it weren't for me... If I had chosen a different path... You might have been fighting alongside your brother instead of against him.
Kaze: Perhaps. There's no telling what might have come to pass. But who's to say that path would have been the right one? Life is not black or white. Both Nohr and Hoshido are fighting for what they believe in. I truly believe that both sides know that. Even my brother.
Corrin: Thank you, Kaze. I hope you're right.
Kaze: Ah, that reminds me. This is for you... Saizo knows that it's thanks to you he was able to survive Kotaro's attack. I believe he left this as a token of thanks. ...And as a sign that our battle with him is not yet over.@Intro 
Xander: Laslow, Peri... I must speak with you two.
Laslow: Yes, Lord Xander! I assume this is about Lord/Lady Corrin and his/her allies. Where will we be engaging the enemy?
Peri: Ooh, I can't wait for them to get here! When does the stabby party begin?!
Xander: The two of you will remain here. This isn't your fight.
Peri: What?! But I wanna spill someone's blood! This is important!
Laslow: Are you concerned that we're not up to the task, milord?
Xander: No, that's not it at all. I have full faith in both of you, as ever. However, I must face Corrin in single combat. That is the only way to limit unnecessary casualties. Enough blood has been spilled. That's why I need you two to remain here. Help keep the Nohrian soldiers at bay.
Laslow: I see. But, milord... how do you know that Corrin will agree to your terms? I don't trust those Hoshido brigands one bit. We should be nearby... just in case.
Peri: I agree! That way I can pop out and kill anyone you need me to!
Xander: I won't say this again. You are to stay behind in this room. Period.
Peri: Aww...
Laslow: But, Lord Xander...
Xander: Look. I trust the two of you, more than you even know. That is why I'm asking you to help me in this way. We've fought valiantly together, and I will always cherish memories with you both.
Laslow: Why are you saying these things? This isn't goodbye...
Peri: Yeah...I don't like this.
Xander: I'm afraid we're out of time. I must go.
Peri: Wait, Lord Xander...
Xander: No! You're not allowed to leave this room, is that clear?
Laslow: Yes, milord...
Peri: This isn't how it's supposed to be... What's going on, Laslow?
Laslow: I don't know. But we must follow Lord Xander's orders...

Corrin: *huff* *huff* Are we almost there?
Elise: Yes. Father's room is at the top of this tower.
Corrin: Thank you. Perhaps we should rest for a moment before ascending. We've all been through a lot just to get here.
Azura: That is an excellent idea. But, sadly, it doesn't appear we'll get the chance.
Corrin: Oh? Why's that?
Azura: Look who's waiting for us.
Corrin: Xander...
Xander: You're here. At last. Now, once and for all.

Xander: Hello, Corrin. You've done well to make it this far.
Corrin: It's been a long journey... I was hoping I wouldn't have to face you like this, Brother.
Xander: For all your trials, you're still so naive. Did you think I'd let anyone, even you, kill Father right in front of me? If you insist on toppling Nohr, you'll have to get through me first.
Elise: Big Brother, please stop! Do you two really have to fight like this? Corrin is still our brother/sister, and all he/she wants is peace!
Xander: Elise?! What are you doing? Have you abandoned Nohr as well?
Elise: No, that's not it. I just want our family to go back to the way it was...
Xander: I see. Is that child's logic how you swayed Camilla and Leo? I'm afraid it won't work on me. As the Crown Prince of Nohr, I don't have the luxury of being so naive. There is nothing you can say to dissuade me from protecting Father and Nohr. I will stop Corrin, here and now. It is the only way.
Elise: Xander, no!
Ryoma: Hold fast, everyone. As long as no one from Nohr intervenes, neither shall we.
Xander: Don't worry — this isn't a trick. And I won't attack Corrin before he's/she's ready. You see? I am here without the support of my retainers or any soldiers. This is between you and me, little prince/princess. Now, let us begin.
Corrin: *sigh* Understood, Brother.
Xander: There isn't much space here. Let's step over into the great hall.
Elise: Wait!
Xander: Stand back, Elise. there's no need for you to see this.
Elise: But...
Xander: I told you not to move!
Elise: ...
Corrin: I tried, Elise. But you knew all along that this might happen.
Elise: *sniff* I'm sorry, Corrin. I'm sorry I couldn't talk Xander out of this...
Corrin: It's OK, Elise. I'm glad you came all the way here with us. And no matter what happens... Having you as my sister has been the best thing that ever happened to me.
Elise: No matter what happens... Please, don't say things like that!
Corrin: It's time for me to go now.
Elise: *sob* There's got to be something more I can do... I can't lose my family forever! I CAN'T!! I'm sorry, Xander, but I can't obey you this time... I won't just let Corrin and Xander kill each other!

Xander: All right, Corrin. Time to settle this once and for all. I hope you've taken all of my training to heart. Don't hesitate like you always used to, do you understand? This isn't a mock battle, little brother/sister.
Corrin: I won't hesitate, as long as you promise not to go easy on me. I'm not the same person I used to be.
Xander: I sure hope that's true. Otherwise this will be a sad, short fight. Haaah!

Corrin: Leo wasn't kidding... Xander is stronger than I remember. But I can't afford to lose...

Xander: You're much stronger than before. I'm impressed. But I'm afraid it's still not enough.

Ryoma: Corrin!
Azura: Gods, he/she's losing!
Corrin: *huff* *huff* LEAVE US! This is my fight with Xander...
Xander: What's wrong, Corrin? Is that really all you've got?
Corrin: Xander... Please... Try to understand... You...you've got so much power... Join me and use it in the service of justice! Together we could easily overthrow King Garon!
Xander: Justice is an illusion. When kingdoms and lives are at stake, there's no justice to be found anywhere! Don't you see that by now?!

Corrin: *cough* *cough* You're wrong... Justice does exist. It's not black and white like some believe, but it's there all the same. Open your eyes... Brother...
Xander: ...

Xander: Very well.  You will die fighting for your cause. I shall defend my homeland!

Xander: Elise!

Xander: Elise! Please! Speak to me!
Elise: Xander... Your sword... Lay it down for me.
Xander: ...
Elise: Nohr needs more from you. Not just your strength...  What we need...  is caring...and a warm hand...and tears.

Elise: That's the way. Try to be at peace.
Corrin: No... No, this can't be happening!! Elise! Wake up! You can't die like this...  NOOOOO!
Xander:  ... Get up, Corrin. Let's end this.
Corrin:  *sob* How can you keep fighting like nothing's happened?! Elise just died in your arms trying to stop us from fighting. Yet you just want to pick right up where we left off?
Xander: I...I know. That's why this fight will be our last. Now, get up.  NOW!
Corrin:  All she wanted was peace and for us to be a family again... She hated seeing us fight...  Please, Big Brother!
Xander: Don't make me say it again. Draw your sword, Corrin.
Corrin: ...
Xander:  NOW.
Corrin: Brother... ... Fine. As you wish. I guess...you're not the brother I remember, Xander.  Elise...I'm so sorry I couldn't save you. And it doesn’t look like I'll be able to make your last wish come true, either. But I can still end this war. I can still bring peace to our kingdoms.  Xander. You taught me to be brave. You taught me how to wield power. The time has come for me to show you what I've learned. If you have any last words, now's the time!

Peri: Lord Xander! Is everything OK?
Laslow: Is...is that Lady Elise? What happened to her?
Xander: I told you two to stay out of this! What are you doing here?
Laslow: Milord, we both had such a bad feeling about this whole thing... And we thought it better to risk punishment than regret inaction.
Peri: Besides, they must have double-crossed you! Which one of you did this to Lady Elise? I'll gut you!
Xander: No, Elise was... *sigh* As I commanded before, stay out of this! That is an order!
Peri: No way! Like Laslow said, we don't care if you're mad. We want to make sure you don't get killed! So we brought some troops.
Laslow: Against your orders if necessary... we will protect you, milord. Nothing will change our minds on this.

Azura: Watch out, everyone! Xander's retainers just arrived with a team of soldiers.
Ryoma: Hmph. So much for this duel. Cowards. Prepare to engage the enemy!
Laslow: None of you fiends will get within shouting distance of Lord Xander.
Peri: Yeah! At least, not in one piece. Heehee!
Xander: Blast! This isn't what I wanted...

@Boss 
Laslow: My duty is to protect Lord Xander and the kingdom of Nohr, in that order. May the gods have mercy on anyone who stands against me.

Laslow: Haha! *cough* *cough* Sorry, friends... I won't be able to... return with you...

Peri: Are you ready to die? If not, I'll give you 10 seconds to get ready. Time's up!

Peri: I'm sorry I disobeyed you, Lord Xander. So this is what death feels like...

Xander: Stay back! This is between me and Corrin.

Xander: It wasn't supposed to be this way...

%Corrin,Xander
Xander: Fight without fear or hesitation. Don't hold back — I promise you that I won't.
Corrin: I won't. I know I've never bested you before, but that changes now!
Xander: That's the spirit. Come at me!
Xander: I knew you could do it. I'm proud of you, Corrin. I always told you...you could do anything...you set your mind to...
Corrin: Brother!!
Xander: Your technique was flawless... You finally stopped holding yourself back. It's what I've always tried to teach you. You're becoming the leader I always knew you could be...
Corrin: Xander...

@End 
Xander: You've done well, Corrin...
Corrin: N-no... I'm still so weak. I'm still no match for you... Why did you let me win, Xander? TELL ME! WHY?!
Xander: ...
Corrin: Answer me! I fought so hard to be stronger... But it's still not enough! You still... *sob* Ended up protecting me in the end... It's just like when we always trained together... It's just like... *sob*
Xander: Dry those eyes, little prince/princess. Do you know what my favorite memory is? Sharing a laugh with you, Elise, Camilla, and Leo around the dinner table. I think Leo had his boots on the wrong feet that day... In my heart I have so many memories of us siblings laughing together... Those were the happiest days of my life.
Corrin: Then why did it have to end this way? Why did we have to fight?! If you had just listened to Elise, or to me... Neither of you would have had to die!
Xander: You can't throw your life away on "if only," little prince/princess. You chose a path... but I never had that choice. I am the Crown Prince of Nohr. My fate was sealed the day I was born.
Corrin: Xander...
Xander: I'd like to think that things could have turned out differently in another world. We could have ended the war together, fighting side by side. *cough* *cough*
Corrin: Xander! Stay with me!
Xander: I'm here, Corrin. I...I'm sorry...I let you slip away from me. As crown prince... I didn't have the option of picking sides like you or Leo or the rest. So, I really did intend to kill you for the good of Nohr. But in the end... I did what I always told you not to do. I let my feelings overrule my duty. In the end, it was my undoing. Is that...is that justice?
Corrin: That's not fair, Xander! You think you can just say something like that and die on me? I'll never be as good as you, Xander... I see that now. I've always looked up to you... You can't leave me!
Xander: You have already prevailed, little prince/princess. Don't you see? I couldn't lead this world...or Nohr...into peace. But you...you can. And you will. You can do the things I couldn't. That's how you'll surpass me... In the end...
Corrin: Xander...
Xander: I'm counting on you, Corrin... Father... Garon...he's...he's... *cough* *cough* He's not what he used to be...
Corrin: Xander... I think I understand. I promise to stop him!
Xander: Thank you, Corrin. Now, it's time...to say good-bye... Please...don't cry...
Corrin: No... Xander? XANDER! *sob*
Azura: Corrin...
Corrin: ... I...I suppose we have to keep going. It's what they would have wanted. If I stayed here crying, Xander would have g-gently scolded me... To honor their sacrifices, I must carry on their honorable legacy. I must be a light in the dark, just like Elise was... And I must be a kind and determined leader... *sob* Just like Xander. If we can't stop King Garon, then all this death will have been in vain... Come on, everyone. It's time.
Azura: You can do this, Corrin.
Corrin: Thank you, Azura. Everyone...we're almost at the end. King Garon awaits. Xander... Elise... I hope you both know how much I love you. I promise to make you proud...and to end this senseless war for good!@Intro 
Xander: I have returned, Father.
Garon: So you have. Word of your work in Hoshido precedes you, son. What I've heard pleases me. Your efforts to vanquish our enemies will not go unrewarded.
Xander: Thank you, Father. There's something else. I bring good tidings. it's about Corrin... He/she has already safely returned to us. Our family is whole again.
Garon: Corrin... has returned?
Corrin: ...Hello, Father.
Garon: What are you doing here, boy/girl?! Why did you come back?
Corrin: F-Father! I...
Elise: Father! How could you say such a thing?
Garon: Do you take me for a fool, Corrin? My spies are everywhere. I know you've been at Hoshido castle this whole time. No doubt their filthy queen filled your head with all manner of secrets about your birth. A poor little prince/princess of Hoshido abducted at a young age by the forces of Nohr. You are surely now aware that the royal family of Nohr is your enemy by birthright. Yet you came back, all the same. I can't help but wonder why.
Iago: Hmmm... smells like treachery! Betrayal! He's/She's surely sided with the enemy. Could it be he's/she's planning to assassinate you, King Garon? it's only logical...
Corrin: NO! How could you say that?! I would never do such a thing!
Xander: It's true. That is simply not possible.
Garon: Oh? How can you be so sure? I expect less sentimentality from a future king of Nohr.
Xander: I have proof his/her loyalty still lies with Nohr! Although it was his/her first true battle, he/she fought off the Hoshidan army all alone.
Corrin: Um, Xander? That's not exactly... argh!
Leo: Be quiet, Corrin. Don't say a word...
Xander: What's more, I saw him/her elect to return to Nohr with my own eyes. We all did. Because of that choice, Prince Ryoma grew angry and tried to kill Corrin. If he/she were a Hoshidan spy, why would he/she risk his life for us? Why would he alienate himself/herself from the royals by protecting us?
Iago: Hmmm... A convincing story. But it proves nothing. The whole thing could be an elaborate ruse!
Xander: Silence Iago! As Crown Prince of Nohr, I swear on my honor that it was no act. You weren't even there, you fool. How could you possibly know what transpired?
Garon: That is enough, Iago. Your words have been heard and considered. Corrin! Where is the sword I gifted you with before you left?
Corrin: That sword... it broke while I was in Hoshido... it exploded before my eyes. If Mother... I mean, the Hoshidan queen... if she hadn't sacrificed herself to save me, I would have died.
Garon: I see... how very touching.
Corrin: Father...I must ask you something. D-did you give me that sword, knowing this would happen? Was it planned?
Xander: Corrin, I don't think now is the best time to bring that up.
Corrin: No, I must know. For myself, and for the innocent Hoshidans who were killed. Father, please tell me the truth. Did you plan that explosion? Did you raise me as your son/child just to send me with that sword to die in Hoshido?
Garon: That sword is just a sword. I know nothing about this attack of which you speak.
Corrin: But, Father...
Garon: I gave you my answer, boy/girl! I won't say it again.
Corrin: ...
Iago: Still doubting the King, are you? Those Hoshidans really got under your skin. King Garon. I think it's safe to say we have a dirty Hoshidan spy on our hands...
Garon: Sadly, I must agree. Now that the war between our kingdoms has escalated, I have no choice. I cannot allow this little problem to go any further than it already has. Xander... Kill Corrin. That's an order.
Xander: WHAT?!

Camilla: Father, stop this madness! I beg of you!
Elise: Please, no! Don't hurt our brother/sister!
Iago: That's enough, Princess. It is not your place to question the King's decision. Not even a queen would be able to overrule a direct command from King Garon!
Garon: Xander, you have your orders. No more stalling. Proceed.
Xander: I won't do it! I'm sorry, father.
Iago: Awww, what's the matter? Don't have the guts?! Or is our own crown prince also a traitor? He IS defying a royal order, after all...
Corrin: Stop this! Xander is not a traitor. Father... I am the cause of all this. All will be well if I just disappear, correct? Please don't bring Xander into this. I'll do it myself. ... Father?
Garon: So, you're willing to trade your life for his? Fascinating. In that case... I shall allow the great Anankos to decide your fate. Now would be a good time to start praying.
Xander: Father? I don't understand...
Garon: Quiet, children. I will now seek the counsel of the sacred mystical dragon, Anankos. He alone shall decide Corrin's fate.
Iago: King Garon? You can't be serious... Are you feeling well?
Corrin: The mystical dragon... Anankos?
Garon: Mighty Anankos, I call upon your wisdom on this day of reckoning! Grant me a vision... Show me the way... ... ... Understood. It shall be done. Fate has smiled on you today, young Corrin. As decreed by Anankos, you shall be accepted in the Nohrian royal family.
Corrin: Father, I... Thank you!
Iago: King Garon?! This is preposterous!
Xander: You did the right thing, Father. We are all eternally grateful.
Garon: Not so fast. Before it can be done, Corrin must first pass a test.
Corrin: A test? What kind of test?
Garon: Anankos decrees that you must first suppress the Ice Tribe's rebellion. Once you have gloriously fulfilled that obligation on behalf of Nohr... I will welcome you back into the fold as my son/daughter, and all will be as it was.
Corrin: Suppress the rebellion... I understand, Father. No matter what, I won't let you down.
Xander: You'll do great, Corrin. I will prepare the troops immediately. With our army at your side, you will make quick work of that little rebellion.
Elise: Yeah! You can do it! I'll go along too, so I can heal you if you get hurt!
Garon: You fail to understand the task at hand. To fulfill the wishes of Anankos, he/she must perform this task by himself/herself. Corrin will vanquish the tribe alone, without the help of our troops.
Elise: WHAT?! Father! That's... that's not possible!
Xander: Father, be reasonable. Attempting to end this rebellion alone is suicide! To even get there, he/she must first pass through the Woods of the Forlorn. it's too much to ask of him when he's/she's still so inexperienced in the ways of the world!
Garon: If that is so, then kill him/her now. I will not tolerate insolence.
Xander: ... Understood, Father. I apologize for my outburst.
Corrin: Don't worry Xander. I'll find a way to do this alone... somehow. Do you remember when Leo said I have the Devil's luck? It must be true. I swear to you, I will accomplish this task and return home without fail. If you'll excuse me, I must go make the proper preparations for my journey.
Xander: Corrin... May the gods be at your side.
Garon: I have high hopes for you, Corrin. Do not let me down.
Corrin: I won't, father. That's a promise.

Garon: Excellent. All is going according to plan. He/she has already left, all alone, just as Anankos ordained. No traitor of Nohr shall escape justice! Even if he/she begs for the sweet release of death, I won't allow it. He/she must first live long enough to lose all hope and learn the true meaning of pain. Ahahaha!

Xander: ...So it is true. I should have known. Father only wishes to make Corrin suffer... in that case, I know what I must do.

Corrin: So these are the Woods of the Forlorn... if I can't make it through here, I'll never reach the Ice Tribe village. I... I wonder if I'm even going the right way. I've never had to go it alone like this. It's a lonely feeling.
Lilith: AHEM.
Corrin: Oh, I'm sorry, Lilith! You're absolutely right - I'm not alone at all. I have you! Thank you for looking after me. Having you here makes me feel a lot better. But enough fooling around. I must fulfill Father's command. Otherwise... Otherwise I betrayed my birth family for nothing. *sigh*

Corrin: Wow, it's pitch black in here. This isn't going to be easy, is it? It's so dark, I could be walking in endless circles for all I know. What to do... Lilith? What was that? I think I heard something... Gah! Is that... a faceless?!
Faceless: Grrrrr... Arrgghhh...
Corrin: I can't believe it! I had no idea there were faceless in this forest. This is bad... I can't run away though. I must make it through here no matter what. That means there's only one option... I'll have to fight my way through!

Faceless: Raaaaaargh!
Corrin: Wow... s-such power! I'm out of my league. I have no choice... I'll have to use my Dragonstone.
Faceless: Grrraaaaargh!

Corrin: Dammit! I'm surrounded. I'm in deep trouble now. There's no way I can transform in time.

????: Aaaaiiiieeeeee!

Faceless: Graaaargh!

Felicia: I did it! Oh, thank goodness I arrived in time! Are you OK?
Corrin: Felicia?! I'm fine, thanks to you. But... what are you doing here?
Felicia: I'm sorry! I was just so worried about you. I had to make sure you were OK. They say the spirits of the dead inhabit this forest, searching for fresh souls to take... That's scary! There was no way I was going to let you face this place all by yourself! It's not easy to do something behind King Garon's back, but I somehow managed. Besides, Flora, Jakob, and I were all moved from the northern fortress to the castle. With both of them around, no one will even notice I'm gone, so it should be fine!
Corrin: Thank you, Felicia. It was very kind of you to come after me like you did. But are you sure this is for the best? According to that... that dragon, I have to do this alone or it doesn't count.
Felicia: Oh! I forgot that part! I am SO STUPID! What are we going to do?! Now you won't be able to pass your test, and it's all my fault!
Corrin: It's OK, Felicia. Anankos just said I have to beat the Ice Tribe by myself. We're not even there yet, so I bet it's fine. Besides, I'd be dead if it weren't for you!
Felicia: Oh, Corrin...
Faceless: Grrrraaaargh...
Corrin: Uh-oh... It looks like we have more company. I hate to ask for your help again so soon, but would you mind lending a hand?
Felicia: Of course! After all, that's why I'm here. I refuse to let you die in this horrible place!
Corrin: Same here. Now let's take these creepy things down and get out of this creepy forest!
Felicia: OK! We can do this!

???: Hyaaaaa!

Faceless: Graaaargh!

Jakob: Begone, vile beast! Corrin, are you OK? Thank heavens I arrived before it was too late!
Corrin: Jakob?! I'm fine, thanks to you. But... what are you doing here?
Jakob: I apologize for the shock, milady. I was worried sick and just had to check on you. They say the spirits of the dead inhabit this forest, searching for fresh souls to take. I simply could not allow you to face such horrors all by yourself. It's not easy to do something behind King Garon's back, but I managed. In any case, Flora, Felicia and I were all reassigned to the castle after you left. Those two should have no trouble covering for me in my absence, so all should be well.
Corrin: Thank you, Jakob. It was very kind of you to come after me like you did. But are you sure this is for the best? According to that... that dragon, I have to do this alone or it doesn't count.
Jakob: I... I'm so sorry, Corrin. I didn't think through the consequences of my actions. This is all my fault
Corrin: It's OK, Jakob. Anankos just said I have to beat the ice tribe by myself. We're not even there yet, so I bet it's fine. Besides, I'd be dead if it weren't for you!
Jakob: Thank you, Lady Corrin. It is an honor to serve you.
Faceless: Grrrraaaargh...
Corrin: Uh-oh... It looks like we have more company. I hate to ask for your help again so soon, but would you mind lending a hand?
Jakob: Certainly. You had only to ask. I refuse to let you die in this horrible place.
Corrin: Same here. Now let's take these creepy things down and get out of this creepy forest!
Jakob: As you wish. Leave it to me!

@Battle 
Corrin: They're not backing down. There's no end in sight. I hate to say it Jakob/Felicia, but we're wildly outnumbered here. We need a plan, and fast.
Silas: Hello? Hellooo?
Corrin: Did you hear that? I think someone's calling out to us in the distance...
Silas: Hey, Corrin! Over here!
Silas: Phew! I finally caught up with you. You're faster than you used to be.
Corrin: Um, thanks. And you would be...?
Silas: It's me, Silas! It's been a long time, Corrin. You're a lot taller! It makes me so happy to reunite with a childhood friend like this.
Corrin: A childhood friend? I'm really sorry, but I'm drawing a blank.
Silas: So you've forgotten about me, eh? Haha, no worries. It's been ages. We used to play together. You always said how badly you wanted to see the world. So one day I made us a picnic and snuck you out for a few hours to explore. I even packed your favorite meal; vegetarian chowder! I knew taking you beyond the walls was forbidden, but... I also knew how much it would mean to you. The guards tried to execute me when we returned, but you wouldn't let them do it.
Corrin: No, it can't be... Silas?! Is it really you? Of course I remember you! I can't believe it! It's been a lifetime since I last saw you. You look so different!
Silas: You too! I wanted to visit, but I was banned from ever returning after that. I became a Nohrian Knight so that one day I might be able to see you again. Now here we are, in the middle of one of your messes! Just like old times, huh? If you will allow me, I would be honored to fight at your side.
Corrin: Silas... Thank you. You really are a sight for sore eyes.
Elise: Everyone, hold your horses! Corrin, I'm here too!
Corrin: Elise?! You came as well?
Elise: Heehee, of course! That's what sisters are for, right? No way I was gonna let our new knight come to your rescue without me! I'm here to help you, Corrin! I don't care what Father thinks!
Corrin: Thank you, Elise... that means so much to me.
Elise: Anyway, back to business. Silas, you're a real dummy, you know that? Mean, too. Leaving a cute princess behind while you forge ahead. Shame on you!
Silas: I-I'm so sorry, milady! But, um, don't you have your own retainers to look after you?
Elise: Well, yeah, but... Don't change the subject! Speaking of, they should be here soon.
Silas: So what you're saying is... you left them behind to forge ahead. Right?
Elise: Right!
Corrin: Elise... you are adorable. Go easy on Silas for me, OK?

Arthur: There's nothing to fear! Arthur is here! The allies of justice have arrived! I'm sorry for letting you slip away, milady. Evil never rests, and nor should I!
Effie: Elise! I was so worried! Thank goodness we found you. Please don't sneak off again - especially when we're all supposed to be resting.
Elise: Heehee, I'm sorry I made you worry. I was just too excited to see Corrin again!
Corrin: Ah, I finally have the privilege of meeting Elise's retainers. Thank you for coming.
Arthur: Where injustice dwells, you're sure to find me. I can also be found wherever Elise is. I would have gotten here sooner, but I fell in a swamp and then a bird stole my map. Then another bird stole my backup map... Let's just say it was an ordeal.
Elise: Oh, Arthur, that is SO YOU! He has the worst luck, heehee.
Corrin: I see... Well, all that matters is that you're here now.
Effie: I didn't fall in the swamp like Arthur, but my armor did hold me back. Maybe I packed too many training stones into it before I left...
Elise: Effie is super strong! She's amazing!
Corrin: Haha, you seem to have some really special retainers, Elise. With all of you on my side, I know we can make it through this. Thank you, all of you, for putting yourselves at risk to come to my aid.
Elise: Sure thing! But really Xander is the one you should thank. He went behind Father's back and sent us all out here to keep you safe!
Corrin: Xander... Well, I certainly can't die before thanking him. All the more reason to prevail!

@End 
Corrin: Phew! It appears all of the Faceless have finally been dispatched. Good work.
Elise: Yaaay! We did it! GO TEAM!
Silas: I can't believe we actually won. Amazing! Now to make our way through this forest and head to the Ice Tribe Village.
Corrin: it's such a dark forest, though... I hope we don't lose our way.
Felicia: Oh dear, that's not possible! I can guide us to the village from here. It's where I was born, after all. I could get us there with my eyes closed! I'll keep them open, though... otherwise I'll surely trip.

Jakob: Worry not, milady. I'm more than happy to guide us from here. I've made it my business to know every inch of our kingdom like the back of my hand.
Corrin: Felicia/Jakob, you never cease to amaze me. Whenever you're ready, lead the way.

Felicia: OK! Everyone, stay close!

Jakob: It would be my pleasure. Please, follow me.

Iago: Drat! So our false prince/princess made it through that battle in one piece... And after I went through all that trouble to summon a Faceless army! This is Prince Xander's fault, the traitor. Though King Garon is not without blame... I don't see why he would allow that child to live after being tainted by the Hoshidans. It is truly beyond my understanding. Luckily he has me to set things right. That's right, Corrin. Enjoy this brief respite, heh heh heh. Hell is waiting for you as soon as you leave this forest. Prepare to suffer and die!@Intro 
Corrin: Whew...this passage just keeps on going, doesn't it? I'm beginning to worry that we made a wrong turn somewhere...
Azura: Believe it or not, I actually remember this part of the tunnel. So I think we're getting close.
Corrin: That's reassuring. Thank you, Azura. Although...this looks an awful lot like a dead end.
Azura: No, look. There are stairs on one side. You just can't see them from this angle. The exit must be at the top.
Corrin: So. The heart of Nohrian power is just above us. Perhaps a few of us should take a quick look. It might be reckless for all of us to burst into the palace at once...
Azura: Good idea. We're with you, Corrin.
Corrin: Here goes nothing...

Nohrian: Hyaaah!
Nohrian: Yah! Hyah!
Corrin: This isn't the throne room... Where are we?
Ryoma: It looks like a training facility. These soldiers are being put through their paces.
Corrin: Well, at least we're in the castle.
Ryoma: Yes. But of all the places the tunnel could have led... We're surrounded by Nohr's most elite soldiers!
Corrin: Gods! Maybe they haven't noticed us yet. We should keep quiet...
Ryoma: Look, someone's coming!

Hans: What are you idiots doing? This is a FULL CONTACT exercise! I want to see real blood! Get after it!
Nohrian: Yes, sir!
Corrin: That's Hans! It seems like Garon must have given him a promotion...
Ryoma: Yes. If I had to guess, he's in charge of this entire group.
Corrin: I'm not a vengeful person...but he killed Gunter right in front of me. I'd sure like to avenge his death.
Nohrian: Well, well! What do we have here? Captain Hans! Some intruders are hiding behind the statue!
Hans: Great! Drag 'em out here—we'll use 'em for target practice. Wait...that's Corrin!

Corrin: Hello, Hans.
Hans: How the hell did you get in here?
Corrin: I have nothing to say to a coward like you. I'd rather let Noble Yato do the talking.
Hans: Bahaha! You'd threaten me in front of my own battalion? Oh, I'm going to enjoy this. Rip 'em apart, soldiers!
Nohrian: Haaaah!

Corrin: Hah!

Nohrian: Ugh...no...
Nohrian: Taste my steel!
Corrin: Hyaaah!

Nohrian: Oof...
Corrin: Are all your soldiers this poorly trained, Hans? What will Garon think?
Hans: Damn it... Don't be afraid of this pathetic child, soldiers! She's all talk! Sacrifice yourselves if need be. For King Garon's glory!
Nohrian: But, Captain...
Hans: What was that? Please, speak up, and I'll relay your comments to King Garon! I'm sure he'll be sympathetic to you and your family. Now SHUT UP and KILL THE INTRUDERS!
Nohrian: Urk!

Corrin: *huff* *huff*
Hans: Bwahaha! There's the pathetic crying baby I remember. Don't let up, soldiers! We've got him/her right where we want him/her.
Corrin: I'll show you who's pathetic.
Hans: Ooh, look who learned to talk like a real soldier! Well, you're not the only one who's gotten stronger. I'm King Garon's newest captain. Let me show you how I got my promotion. HAAAH!

Corrin: OH—
Ryoma: Corrin, look out!

Corrin: Lilith! NO! Lilith! NO! Talk to me, Lilith! ARGHHH!
Hans: Stupid bird! I'd have had her... Never mind. I won't miss again. I'll have your head off with the next swing—count on it!
Corrin: You'll pay for this, Hans... I'll kill you with my own two hands!

@Boss 
Hans: Let me relieve you of your head! Bwahaha!

Hans: You...you killed me! How can this be? URGHH...

%Corrin,Hans 
Hans: Ah, I finally get a chance to finish the job. My axe is waiting...
Corrin: I'm going to burn you to the ground, Hans. When I'm through with you, your axe will be the only reminder you ever lived.

@End 
Ryoma: Stand down, Nohrians! Your captain has been defeated! Drop your weapons, and your lives will be spared.
Nohrian: They killed Captain Hans... What do we do?
Nohrian: I...I don't know. I think we surrender.
Takumi: It looks like they're giving up.
Ryoma: Good. Then we're done here.
Hinoka: Guys, we've got a problem. Lilith took quite a shot...
Ryoma: Gods, no...

Corrin: Lilith...please open your eyes. Hans is dead. We finally got him. Please... You have to be OK!
Sakura: She's too far gone for my rod to work. I don't think I can save her, Corrin...
Corrin: What?! No!
Elise: My staff isn't helping either. What do we do?
Corrin: This can't be happening...

Corrin: Lilith! You're...you're human again!
Lilith: *cough* *cough* Only for a moment, it seems... The Astral Dragon Moro has taken pity on me. It's giving me the strength to return to this form for my last few breaths...
Corrin: Please don't say that! You're not going to die. You can't! Please! Stay with us!
Lilith: I'm sorry, milord/milady, but I'm not long for this world. Please don't cry. I decided to give my life for you, and I'm happy I succeeded. After all, you already saved my life once. This just makes us even. I die with no regrets.
Corrin: But...we could end the war today! You could live in a peaceful world... Don't give up!
Lilith: It's OK, Lord/Lady Corrin. I know how far we've come. And I know you will succeed. I can die happy, remembering our time together and the progress we've made. Lord/Lady Corrin...be brave and go on without me. 

Corrin: Lilith...no. No... WAAAAAH!
Elise: Lilith... This can't be happening...
Sakura: I'm so sorry...I couldn't s-save you...

Corrin: What are we even fighting for? Is it worth it?
Ryoma: Look up, Corrin.
Corrin: Ryoma?
Ryoma: Dry your tears. Think about Lilith's sacrifice. She gave her life so you could continue fighting. And what are we fighting for? We are fighting for peace! We are fighting for Queen Mikoto and for the whole world! Do you think Lilith would want you to give up like this?
Corrin: Ughhh...
Ryoma: Listen. It is time for you to rise to the occasion. If we want to end this war, now is the time for us to take action!
Corrin: I'm just so tired. Tired of loss. Tired of death.
Ryoma: There will be a time for rest. But that time is not now. Rise up! The sacred blade Yato chose YOU, Corrin. We're all counting on you!
Corrin: ... You're right. I know you're right. I will not stop until King Garon's reign of terror is over. Let's go, everyone.
Ryoma: That's the spirit.
Elise: Father's room is this way, Corrin. Please promise you'll try talking first.
Corrin: I will. ... Thank you, Lilith. And good-bye for now.@Intro 
Corrin: *pant...pant...* This is taking too long. Where is he?! If we don't find Ryoma soon, Iago's troops might get to him first. If that happens...
Azura: I wonder if he went...there. No, that would be too awful...
Corrin: Azura, if you have any idea where he might be, now's the time to fill me in.
Azura: *sigh* There's a secret space in front of the throne room. You must pass by it to get to the throne. I can't think of where else he could be. He's likely planning a last stand, should we make it that far.
Corrin: In front of the throne room?! But that's where we're meeting up with the others... If you're right, we won't be able to reach him before regrouping with Father!
Azura: I know. I'm sorry, but things don't seem to be going our way at the moment.
Corrin: This can't be happening! If I don't find Ryoma first, they'll kill—
Iago: Lord/Lady Corrin! Lady Azura! I see you made it here unharmed.
Corrin: Hello, Iago.
Iago: We were able to take down the Hoshidans with few Nohrian casualties. All thanks to the great King Garon's divine strength.
Corrin: Father...actually fought?
Iago: He insisted. The Hoshidan soldiers were mere babes compared to his might! Not a single enemy soldier escaped with their life. It was most glorious! How did your troops fair ?
Corrin: It was the same on our end. They were no match for our power. We ran into Princess Hinoka on the way. I took her down without hesitation. Here... Take her weapon as a trophy from my latest conquest.
Iago: A bloody lance? Hmmm. A compelling case, but I wouldn't say this counts as proof, much less a trophy. Why didn’t you bring us her head instead?
Corrin: I...had no time for show. We're fighting a war here, Iago.
Iago: Hmmm. You didn't happen to let the princess escape, now did you?
Corrin: How dare you!
Garon: Iago.
Iago: King Garon! What is it, my liege?
Garon: That's enough. Or do you intend to discuss this trivial matter all day? Do you truly believe this small matter is more important than conquering Hoshido?
Iago: No, my king! But if the prince/princess DID allow her to live, it might affect our campaign...
Garon: Ha! And what exactly could a little mouse like her do against my army? Even if she is alive, it would be all too easy to crush her once Hoshido has fallen. How long do you intend to make me wait over something so trifling?
Iago: M-my apologies. You are right, as ever. Let us be on our way.
Garon: Don't fall behind, Corrin. I have my eye on you.
Corrin: Of course, Father.
Iago: ... You lucked out this time, Lord/Lady Corrin. But that's just fine. After all, from here on out, your life will be nothing but misery. I hope you're ready to crush the life out of Prince Ryoma... Heh heh heh.

Corrin: Psst... Are we nearing that space you were talking about, Azura?
Azura: We are. After we pass through here, we'll be in the throne room.
Corrin: Gods! Is that...Ryoma?!

Ryoma: You...have done well so far... But that was just practice. No more games—to the death!

Ryoma: So, you made it. That can only mean one thing... The Hoshidan army has fallen.
Iago: How observant of you, Prince Ryoma. Your troops have been obliterated. Hardly anyone remains. Princess Sakura is our prisoner, and Prince Takumi jumped off the Great Wall in shame.
Ryoma: ...
Iago: Oh, I almost forgot...

Ryoma: Hinoka's lance... You! I swear, you will pay for this!!
Iago: Oh, but sadly it wasn't I who killed her. That honor goes to Lord/Lady Corrin. Isn't that right, milord/milady?
Corrin: Y-yes. It was I.
Ryoma: WHAT?! You... You killed Hinoka? Our sister?!
Corrin: ...
Ryoma: This is madness! Do you really mean to tell me the blood on this lance is Hinoka's?! Answer me, Corrin! ANSWER ME!!
Corrin: ... It's...it's true. I killed her... I killed Hinoka.
Ryoma: Gods, no!!

Ryoma: YOU MURDERING FIEND!!

Corrin: Argh!
Xander: Corrin!
Ryoma: Don't you dare try to stop me! This doesn't concern you!
Xander: Calm yourself, Prince Ryoma.
Corrin: Ryoma, what are you—
Ryoma: I will have revenge for my sister! I challenge you to a duel!! I will not rest until I kill you myself, you traitorous scum! When the sun sets on this day, one of us will be dead. No one will get between me and my revenge!
Corrin: Ryoma...

Xander: No, I won't allow it! I shall not stand idly by while you attempt to harm my brother/sister. Soldiers! Protect Corrin from this madman at once!
Iago: Stand down, soldiers. Your assistance will not be necessary.
Xander: Iago! What is the meaning of this?!
Iago: If our prince/princess is as strong as you claim, he/she shouldn't need any help. Or are you suggesting Lord/Lady Corrin doesn't have what it takes to win?
Xander: His/her training is solid. His/Her instincts are true. He/She has all the tools he/she needs to prevail.
Iago: There you have it. Then there's no reason for us to intervene. Just sit back and enjoy he show, Lord Xander.
Xander: Scoundrel! The man you would have him/her slay is his/her brother by birth! There's no guarantee his/her divine blade will stay true under such duress! Father! End this! Or will you stand by and watch a prince/princess of Nohr fall?
Garon: ...
Xander: Father!
Iago: It's useless, Lord Xander. King Garon has already approved this inevitable showdown. We are both eager to see how much Lord/Lady Corrin has grown with our own eyes. And if the two end up killing each other... Well, lesson learned.
Xander: If you think I will stand by and do nothing, you are grievously mistaken!

Xander: Hoshidan reinforcements...
Saizo: Your trail of blood ends here, Nohrians. After our encounter in Mokushu, I had hoped I would never see you again.
Kagero: On behalf of Lord Ryoma, Saizo and I will not allow you to interfere. we will have our revenge for Lady Hinoka and all the Hoshidan lives you've taken!!
Xander: You have my attention. Ready your weapons. Brother! Sisters! Let's take these soldiers out and go help Corrin.
Leo: We're on it.
Camilla: I will happily kill anyone who gets in the way of saving my precious brother/sister!
Elise: I'll do my best, Xander! For Corrin!

@Boss 
Saizo: We will not surrender. No matter how grim things seem, I believe in Hoshido! I believe in Lord Ryoma!

Saizo: I have failed...Lord Ryoma... Though I must die...my words remain true. I will always believe in Hoshido... We will win this war. The world...will one day...know peace..

Kagero: Do what you will, Nohrian. We cannot afford to lose. Even if our fate is worse than death, we will never give up on Lord Ryoma!

Kagero: This is it. This is the end. Lord Ryoma... Saizo... It was an honor...to fight beside you both. If only I could have lived to see...Hoshido achieve...true peace...

Ryoma: Only an honorless boor would interfere with a duel!

Ryoma: My kingdom... My honor... All is lost...

%Corrin,Ryoma 
Ryoma: It's time, Corrin. Show me the power you used to slay our sister! Or does the Yato repel at your touch now that your heart and soul are dead?
Corrin: Ryoma, stop this. I don't want to fight you! I can explain all of this, even Hinoka. Please, listen to me!
Ryoma: Ha! As though I would allow you to distract me with false remorse. How dare you pretend to be my brother/sister after killing Hinoka! You are nothing to me. Just a filthy coward like the rest of your kingdom. I have said all I wish to say to you. Nothing you can do will sway me. You are no brother/sister of mine, Nohrian prince/princess! Watch as my blade takes back whatever Hoshidan blood remains in you!
Corrin: Ryoma! No!!

@End 
Ryoma: Hoshido has fallen. I am a disgrace to my people. Corrin... Kill me. Do it now. Once you do, the war is over. Please...end my suffering and let me join Hinoka.
Corrin: I can't do that, Ryoma.
Ryoma: Are you really going to deny me even the mercy of a quick death?!
Corrin: My brother... To kill you now would not reunite you with Hinoka. I did not kill her, Ryoma. She's still alive.
Ryoma: This must be...a trick of some kind...
Corrin: It isn't. She and I fought, but I refused to kill her, just as I refuse to kill you. I couldn't do it. It may cost me my life and my mission, but she's too precious to me. I knew Father would not tolerate there being any survivors, so I lied. I made it seem as though she were dead and told her to hide until the war was over. That's why I took her lance as proof. If I had really killed her, don't you think we would have taken her head instead?
Ryoma: I suppose. But how can I trust you after all you've done?!
Corrin: I'm sorry, Ryoma. I don't know what else to say. I know you have no good reason to take me at my word, but I swear it's the truth. Sakura and Yukimura were taken prisoner, but at least they're still alive. Takumi fell, but his body is missing, I'm sure he's out there somewhere. I want to save you too, Ryoma. I don't want anyone else to die! Please, Brother! I would rather die than lie to you a moment longer. The truth is that I am not your enemy. All I have done has been for the good of us all.
Ryoma: Corrin... I...
Corrin: Quiet! Father is approaching... Let me say all I need to say. I want nothing more than to save you and this kingdom. I promised Hinoka I would. You may hate me, but know that no matter what happens...you'll always be my brother.

Ryoma: What's this?! I could have sworn I saw the Yato light up for a moment. Could it be? Is he/she telling the truth? I wonder...

Corrin: Father, the battle is over. Hoshido's high prince is at death's door.
Garon: Well done, my son/daughter.
Corrin: Thank you, Father. Now it's time to cement that which you have waited so long for. Once you seize the throne, this kingdom will finally belong to Nohr.
Garon: Yes, but first... I shall bear witness as you kill Prince Ryoma.
Corrin: ...
Garon: Are you deaf, child? Kill Prince Ryoma! I forbid anyone else from taking your glory. Deal the final blow yourself.
Corrin: But, Father! What purpose does it serve? Prince Ryoma can no longer fight. We've won the war! Why not force him to drown in his disgrace rather than needlessly take his life? To watch our king ascend his throne is surely more torturous than death...
Garon: Foolish boy/girl. Have you learned nothing?! Rebellions are like seeds. One must salt the earth before they sprout. You have uttered those very words yourself. Or was your change of heart a lie?
Corrin: It wasn't! I just—
Iago: Oh my, what is the meaning of this? Could it be you lied to your king? If you lied about that, perhaps you lied about Princess Hinoka too... What have you done, Corrin? Have you betrayed Nohr after all?
Corrin: You're wrong! I have proven my allegiance to Nohr over and over again!
Iago: Then prove it one last time. Someone as strong as you should have no trouble ending a life in one strike, right?
Corrin: ...
Garon: Kill him now. I will not be kept waiting. Do it now or be branded a traitor and condemn yourself and your troops to death.
Corrin: Father!!
Ryoma: Corrin...
Corrin: Ryoma... I... I...

Iago: Enough of this! Prince/Princess Corrin is clearly a trai—
Ryoma: Wait!
Iago: Hm?
Ryoma: I know what must be done, and I will not allow a Nohrian to do it for me. I will end this war...my way.
Iago: What are you talking about? Have you gone mad from despair?
Corrin: Ryoma?
Ryoma: Thank you, Corrin. I finally understand. It's all right. Everything will be all right. My beloved brother/sister...
Corrin: Ryoma, no! Don't!
Ryoma: I'm counting on you, Corrin. I will... trust you. Good-bye...

Ryoma: I cannot fall into the hands of an enemy. So I... fulfill a samurai's... final duty!

Ryoma: I'm counting on you.

@End 
Corrin: NOOO!! This can't be... Ryoma...
Azura: Ryoma... My...brother...

Iago: Hmph! King Garon, do you accept this travesty? Lord/Lady Corrin did not kill the prince as you so clearly commanded!
Garon: True, but I will accept this victory nonetheless. Prince Ryoma is dead, as is Hoshido. Victory belongs to Nohr. At long last, I am now king of everything and everyone! Mwahahaha!

Garon: Heheheheh... MWAHAHAHA!!
Corrin: No!!

Azura: Corrin? Where are you going?! Corrin, wait!

Iago: Hmph...

Corrin: I can't cry... I must stay strong... If I cry now, Ryoma's sacrifice will have been in vain... I am King Garon's child! A cold, heartless, prince/princess! That is my disguise. I can't falter. I chose to follow my heart, to walk the path of darkness... I am Corrin the traitor! And so I must remain until the bitter end. I must rejoice in the sorrow of my enemies. I must...revel in their deaths. I have no right to cry over Ryoma... over my...my brother... No!! I can't... I mustn't... *sob* WHY?! WHY IS THIS HAPPENING?! Ryoma! Brother!! *sob...sob...*
Azura: Corrin...
Corrin: Azura... *sniffle* I couldn't...protect him... I promised Hinoka I'd save him. That we'd all be a family again one day... But it was a lie, just like everything in my life. All I do is hurt the ones I love! *sob*
Azura: Hush now, Corrin. It's OK. I know you couldn't keep that promise you made to Hinoka... But don't forget about the new promise you made to Ryoma.
Corrin: A new...promise...?
Azura: That's right. Remember his last words? He said, "I'm counting on you." That was him entrusting the future of Hoshido to you. Those aren't just empty words from one enemy to another. In the end he realized what you're trying to achieve and recognized you as his brother/sister. That's why he said what he said... and why he did what he did.
Corrin: Ryoma... *sob*
Azura: My brother... He smiled as he died. He smiled just for you. He was proud of you, Corrin. Don't waste his sacrifice. You will fulfill his promise, won't you? His...his dying wish?
Corrin: *sniffle* Y-you're right. I did make him a promise. And as long as I'm alive, I will keep it. I won't let you down, Ryoma...
Azura: You've been so strong, Corrin. We're almost at the end. Once King Garon sits on the throne, everyone will learn the truth. We're so close... But for just...just a brief moment... May I...cry with you? *sniffle*@Intro 
Iago: King Garon, I have come to report on Lord/Lady Corrin's progress. It would seem he/she successfully captured Notre Sagesse for the glory of Nohr. As for the Rainbow Sage, he/she didn't kill him with his/her own hands... However, as ordered, the Sage is dead.
Garon: So the ancient one has finally passed on... Once more, Corrin has dutifully fulfilled my wishes. Heh heh heh... Ha ha ha ha... MWA HA HA HAA HAAAA!!!
Iago: King Garon? Milord?
Garon: HA HA HA HA HA! MWA HA HA HA HAAA!!!
Iago: Your majesty?!
Garon: ... Iago.
Iago: Y-yes, sire?
Garon: I have an important mission for you. I command you... to make Corrin suffer. Make him/her rue the day he/she was born. But no matter what, no matter how he/she begs for death, do not kill him/her.
Iago: As you wish, sire, but... I'm not entirely sure I understand your aim.
Garon: I do not need you to understand, only to obey. Loyal servant... it is of grave importance that I rule Hoshido. Corrin's life and happiness are a trifling price to pay. Still, he/she must be kept alive for now... the Great Dragon has willed it so. Corrin's body and soul must be tested... primed for what is to come. Like a calf fattened for slaughter, so too shall these trials prepare him/her. My dear son/daughter is not ready, but his/her time is fast approaching. Corrin has faithfully followed my orders thus far, but it's time for a test. He/She must fight those he/she doesn't wish to fight... kill those he/she doesn't wish to kill. His/her sorrow will feed the darkness in his/her soul. And his/her suffering will make him/her a worthy sacrifice upon the altar of Anankos.
Iago: I understand, King Garon. It shall be done, with pleasure. In fact, I have an idea...

Corrin: Thank the gods - we're finally back in familiar territory. If we keep up this pace, we'll be back at the castle in just a few days.
Elise: Th-that's good... I'm at the end of my rope. Can't wait to sleep in my own bed.
Corrin: Ha ha, poor Elise. You've been through a lot on this journey, haven't you? I've asked so much of you, and you've never complained once. You're an inspiration. Just hang in there a bit longer for me, OK? We'll be back home before you know it.
Elise: You got it, Corrin! I promise I won't let you down!

Elise: *pant... pant...* *cough*
Corrin: Elise? Are you OK, little one?
Elise: I don't... feel so well. Why is... everything... spinning... *gasp*

Corrin: ELISE!

Corrin: Elise, speak to me! What's wrong?! Please, no... Gods, she's burning up!
Azura: Dizziness, fever... Ah, and a rash, too. Just as I feared...
Corrin: Azura, what is it?! Have you seen these symptoms before?
Azura: Unless I'm mistaken, she is suffering from an illness endemic to the islands. She must have been exposed to it while we were in Notre Sagesse. The illness progresses quickly. If we don't act fast... we may lose her. There's a special plant in Hoshido that I could derive a cure from, however... I'm sorry, but... I don't believe there's anything like it here in Nohr.
Corrin: We have to do something, dammit. I won't let her die. I won't!
Silas: Corrin! We just received new orders from Iago.
Corrin: Now?! Are you kidding me? We don't have time for this. What is it Father requires of me?
Silas: He apparently wishes to reward you for your success in Notre Sagesse. We are to travel to the royal palace in Macarath for rest and relaxation.
Corrin: Rest? Can it be? Thank goodness. I was afraid he was going to order me to kill again. Perhaps they can help Elise there... it's our only hope.
Silas: What do you mean? Is there something wrong with the princess?
Corrin: She caught a deadly ailment while we were on our last mission. Azura can cure her with a special plant, but it only grows in Hoshido...
Silas: Don't worry, Corrin. Macarath will surely have what she needs.
Corrin: Will they, Silas? How do you know?
Silas: The best doctors in all the land can be found in Macarath. Their stock of medicines is unrivaled.
Azura: We must hurry, Corrin. She doesn't have much time...
Corrin: Let's move it people! To Macarath! Hang in there, Elise...

Corrin: We finally made it to Palace Macarath. There's hope yet. But why is there a crowd at the entrance... Wait... th-that's not just any crowd. It's the Hoshidan army! And they're not alone...
Ryoma: Hello, Corrin. I've been waiting for you.
Corrin: Ryoma...
Ryoma: It's been a while, brother/sister. I haven't seen you since that fateful day on the border. I see you've become a faithful Nohrian dog since then. Your master must be proud.
Corrin: I don't wish to argue, Ryoma. How did you know we were coming to Macarath?
Ryoma: That doesn't concern you. All you need to know is how fast you can draw your blade.
Corrin: Ryoma, please... Let us pass. I beg of you. My sister, Elise, is gravely ill. If we don't treat her right away, she'll die.
Ryoma: The Nohrian princess is sick, is she? I can tell she means a lot to you. Well then, I believe a trade is in order. Her life for yours. Come back to Hoshido with me, and I shall withdraw my troops immediately.
Corrin: You know I can't do that. Please, have mercy.
Ryoma: Your only other option is to fight me, here and now. Ready your blade, Corrin. Show me what you're made of.
Corrin: Ryoma, stop this! Please! There must be another way. Although I fight for Nohr, I do not wish to be an enemy of Hoshido. I wish for nothing but peace. Please believe me, Brother.
Ryoma: More empty words. Even if that were true, I doubt that monster you call a father shares the sentiment. They've brainwashed you, brother/sister. You are blind to their evil and cowardly ways. If the sting of my blade is the only way to bring you back to your senses, so be it.
Corrin: Ryoma! Don't do this!
Ryoma: I won't back down today, brother/sister. You're coming home. Now. Prepare to witness firsthand my blade's true power... As the high prince of Hoshido, I order you to surrender! HYAAAAH!!
Corrin: Argh!
???: Not on my watch!
???: Heh hee! Prepare to DIE!

Ryoma: Argh!! Wh-what is the meaning of this?!
Laslow: Heh, looks like we made it just in the nick of time. I'm glad to find you unharmed, milord/milady.
Peri: Aw, phooey. I didn't get any stabby-stabby time in. At least we saved you.
Corrin: Thanks for your help, but who are you?
Laslow: You may call me Laslow. My liege, Lord Xander, sent us here to watch your back.
Peri: I'm Peri! P for pulverize, E for eviscerate, R for ruin, I for impale! Kee hee! Laslow and I are Lord Xander's retainers. He's really worried about you! That's why he sent us to kill things on his behalf. Best job ever!
Corrin: That sounds like Xander. Thank you for your assistance, friends.
Ryoma: Ah, so you're Prince Xander's retainers. That explains a lot. Your master taught you well if you were able to deflect my attacks like that. But my retainers are just as strong, and their cause is much nobler. You may harbor my brother/sister, but I won't make this easy on you, Nohrians. Troops! Prepare for battle! 
Corrin: Ryoma, wait! Listen to me! Ryoma...
Peri: It's no use. I know that look in his eyes... it's the same one I have! It means he's raring to fight.
Laslow: Please don't look so glum, milord/milady. It's bad for morale. It's always best to smile during times of hardship, even if you don't feel like it. It will make you feel better, I swear it. Give it a try!
Corrin: I'm sorry, Laslow. I know you're right, but I won't be able to smile until Elise is safe. We need to get her medical attention right away, but-
Laslow: What are you saying?! Has something happened to Lady Elise?
Corrin: She's in bad shape, Laslow. She doesn't have much time.
Peri: Hee hee, then let's gut these fools quickly and save our princess! I'm gonna stabby-stab every last one of them! It'll be SO FUN!
Corrin: Your enthusiasm has been... noted. But do all you can to avoid taking any lives, OK? 
Laslow: If you wish it so, so it shall be. I agree that it's always best to secure a win without needlessly sacrificing lives.
Peri: Awww, that's not FAIR! I was all ready to get my killface on. Phooey. Whatever, I'll do my best. I guess hitting things will have to suffice.
Corrin: Thank you, friends. I'm glad to have you on my side. Ryoma, my brother... I do not wish to fight you, but you've left me no other option. I will not let Elise die, and I can't return to Hoshido either...

@Boss 
Saizo: I am Lord Ryoma's retainer, Saizo. Behold my mastery of explosives!

Saizo: Well done. But next time… will be a different story…

Kagero: If you wish to harm Lord Ryoma, you must get through me first.

Kagero: Forgive me… Lord Ryoma. The enemy’s will… was too strong…

Ryoma: Return Corrin to me or feel the wrath of my blade!

Ryoma: Not again! We'll have to...retreat...

%Corrin,Saizo
Saizo: Fight me, Corrin. It must be destiny that we meet again. Last time we were interrupted… but this time you won’t be so lucky. Let us settle this fair and square.
Corrin: I wouldn’t want it any other way.

%Kaze,Saizo
Saizo: Kaze... I never thought I'd live to see my own brother betray us. As your twin, and a proud ninja serving the great kingdom of Hoshido... I want you to know that I am truly ashamed of you and your actions.
Kaze: Saizo, we have been close since the moment we were born. I never wished to disappoint you, but I stand by my decision. Say what you will---I have no regrets. I proudly side with Corrin.
Saizo: You are a fool, Brother. I will show you the error of your ways!

%Corrin,Kagero 
Kagero: As Lord Ryoma’s retainer, it is my duty to follow his every order. He wishes to take you back to Hoshido, and so it must be done.
Corrin: I refuse. You may attempt to take me by force, but it won’t end well.
Kagero: You sound most determined. This should be interesting…

%Corrin,Ryoma
Corrin: I'm sorry Ryoma, but you know I can't go back to Hoshido with you. Though it pains me, I will not hesitate to strike you down to save my sister.
Ryoma: Your sister? Hmph. So you still think of the Nohrian royals as your true family.
Corrin: ....
Ryoma: If you only knew what it would mean to us to have that place in your heart....It's not too late for that. I won't give up on you, Brother/Sister. Never. That's why I must win this battle and take you back to Hoshido! Let us begin!

%Azura,Ryoma
Ryoma: Azura... Hinoka and Takumi told me you were fighting with the enemy. I had to see it with my own eyes to believe it. What a pity. I suppose the Nohrian blood flowing in your veins lends itself to betrayal..
Azura: Think of me what you will, Ryoma. But know that I am, and ever shall be, grateful for my time in Hoshido. I'm especially grateful for your family, who raised me as their own. That includes you too, Ryoma. You were like the brother I never had.
Ryoma: Azura... Leave it to you to craft such a lovely farewell. I wish I could forget our time together. It would make this a lot easier. But enough with farewells. Let us battle!

@End 
Ryoma: Our line has been breached... We have no choice. Everyone, retreat! We must escape before Nohrian reinforcements arrive!

Corrin: It looks like the Hoshidan soldiers have finally retreated. Hang in there, Elise. It won't be long now until we can get you that medicine.
Elise: Thanks... Corrin... Hee... hee... I'm so glad... You didn't... go back... to Hoshido... *gasp*
Corrin: ELISE!!
Elise: *pant... pant...*
Azura: She's running out of time. She needs that medicine now. Stay strong, sweet Elise. We need you to hang in there...

Elise: Zzz... zzz...
Azura: I believe the worst is over. We can rest easy now. As long as she gets plenty of rest, she should make a full recovery.
Corrin: Thank you, Azura. Your knowledge of herbs and medicine saved her life. This has been a trying ordeal for all of us. I propose we take this opportunity to rest.
Azura: That's a splendid idea. Perhaps you could start by telling me what's on your mind.
Corrin: *sigh* You're very keen, aren't you? I keep wondering how Ryoma knew we'd be here. It's killing me. There's no way the Hoshidan army could have known we were making this detour...
Azura: Yes, I've been pondering that as well. We should remain cautious. There might be those among the Nohrians who wish to see you fall...
Corrin: But why? What have I done?
Elise: Hmmm... Mmmm... Corrin... Azura...
Corrin: Elise! You're finally awake. How do you feel?
Elise: I was having... a dream... Gunter was there... He was talking to me...
Corrin: Gunter? Aw, Elise, you know he... That's not possible.
Azura: ...
Elise: No... it was really Gunter... He was worried about you... He looked so lonely... Don't worry... Gunter... Soon we'll... we'll... Zzz... zzz... zzz...
Azura: Elise? ... She's fallen back asleep.
Corrin: Hmm, I wonder why she saw Gunter in her dream. Well, I suppose it was just a dream. Gunter died in the Bottomless Canyon. No matter how much we wish we could see him again, it can never be. And yet, I can't help feeling bothered by it. Gunter... Are you trying to tell us something?
Azura: ...@Intro 
Garon: Iago! Is that the throne room up ahead?
Iago: Yes, my liege. Nothing stand in our way. The kingdom of Hoshido is all yours!
Garon: Mwahaha, the time has finally come! I have awaited this moment for decades upon decades...
Corrin: ... Yes, Father. Please, sit on the throne and claim what is rightfully yours. Let us admire you in your first moments as the conqueror of Hoshido!
Garon: No. Stay right there.
Corrin: Hm?
Garon: I must first consult the sacred mystical dragon, Anankos. No one may enter the throne room until I say so.
Corrin: ...Understood, Father.
Garon: Mwahahaha!! I am ruler of both Nohr and Hoshido, the two greatest kingdoms of all! I shall be remembered forever as the king who conquered the world!

Corrin: ...
Azura: Corrin...
Corrin: It's all right, Azura. Once he's done praying to his god, we'll be allowed to join him in the throne room. Then everyone will finally see his true form. After all we've endured, waiting just a few moments longer is nothing.
Azura: You're right. It's almost time...
Corrin: Relax, everyone. Father will give us permission to enter any minute now.

Corrin: The fighting is finally over. Let's lay down our weapons and rest easy for a change.
Azura: Corrin, behind you!
Corrin: Huh?!

Iago: Drat, I missed! What a slithery little snake you are.
Azura: What are you doing, Iago?! Why did you attack Corrin?
Iago: What am I doing? Is it not I who should be asking that question? What exactly do you think you're doing, Lord/Lady Corrin?
Corrin: What are you talking about?!
Iago: Princess Hinoka is alive and well. Do you deny it?
Corrin: That's...that's nonsense! You have no proof!
Iago: Oh? While you were fighting Prince Ryoma, I had soldiers search the castle grounds. What do you think they found? Surprise, surprise! Princess Hinoka with a small group quietly escaping from the back.
Corrin: ...
Iago: You don't seem surprised, young prince/princess. I take your silence as a confession. You let her escape, didn't you?! Such betrayal is an act of treason, and the only possible punishment is death.

Iago: As such, I think I'll go ahead and take your pathetic little life myself!
Corrin: No!

Xander: As though I would ever allow that to happen.
Corrin: Xander!
Iago: Out of my way, Prince Xander. Otherwise you too will be branded a traitor and executed for your crime.
Xander: So be it. If you wish to kill Corrin, you will have to defeat me first. However, know that I do not intend to go down without a fight.
Iago: Wh-what do you mean?
Xander: I challenge you to a duel, Iago. I have had enough of you and your cruel manner of doing things. You are a disgrace to the great kingdom of Nohr, but that ends today. If you choose not to repent, the only fate left for you is to die by my blade. As the crown prince of Nohr, I am taking back my kingdom!

Leo: Count me in. I've long hoped for the chance to express my discontent with Iago's dirty schemes. If you are going to take him down, allow me to share in the pleasure.
Iago: You d-don't intend to kill me, do you?! Your king's trusted g-general? That's not very becoming of a N-Nohrian royal, now is it?!
Xander: Say what you will, coward. Our father is not here to protect his lapdog. We'll tell him you were murdered by some remaining Hoshidan rebels. How tragic.
Iago: What?! No! That's deceitful! It's traitorous! It's—

Elise: Hmph! Who are you to judge us?! You and Hans have done nothing but awful things to innocent people for years! And what's more, you've been openly mean to Corrin! I've always hated you two! It's time to pay for being such big jerks!!
Camilla: Hmm, well, I perhaps don't feel as strongly as our little Elise here... But anyone who tries to hurt my darling Corrin most certainly deserves death. It's only fair. You're ready to die now, I hope?
Iago: Lady Elise! Lady Camilla! Th-this is bad...
Hans: Are you traitors really turning your blades against your own?! Fine then! Bring it on, gwahaha! I don't care if you're a prince or a princess. You're weak—all of you!
Azura: It seems the only way to settle this is with a battle. Do not expect me to hold back. Though I do not regret returning to Nohr... I will not stand idly by while you desecrate the kingdom I grew up in!
Corrin: If it’s a fight you want, Hans, it’s a fight you’re going to get. I always try to avoid needless violence...but there’s an exception to every rule. You want to see me act more like you? Like a merciless killer? Then watch this. You may be on the side of Nohr, but I will punish you all the same!
Xander: Don't worry, Corrin. We all share the sentiment, and we have your back. You are still the leader of this army, and we are awaiting you orders. You have plotted the course, little prince/princess. Give the word, and we shall act upon it!
Corrin: Right! Everyone, ready your weapons! These men have employed cowardly tactics to hurt innocent people! They have destroyed the reputation of our beloved kingdom! They are traitors, and they will pay for the crimes with their lives! Hurry my friends! It is time to obliterate the king's army and take back Nohr!

@Boss 
Hans: I've waited a long time to wipe that smug look of your face. This is what you get for not bowing down to my might!

Hans: Defeated? How?! No... It can't be... I was to be rewarded with power! So much...power...

Iago: You impertinent traitor! Your ragtag group is no match for my army! Let your death serve as an example to all those who dare oppose King Garon!

Iago: GAAAAH!! This can't...be happening! How could I lose?! King Garon, please...save...me...

%Corrin,Iago 
Iago: Are you ready to pay for your betrayal, Lord/Lady Corrin?
Corrin: No, Iago, I am ready to kill you.
Iago: Oh my, how very frightening. I'm trembling! I am the highest-ranking general in the Nohrian army, you fool. Do you really think I'll be so easy to kill? But before you die, I have something to tell you. A parting gift, if you will. It was I who sent the Faceless who killed that flying rat, Lilith.
Corrin: What!?
Iago: Oh, and that's not all. It was I who suggested to King Garon that you be forced to kill Prince Ryoma. And I who told the enemy about your journey to Macarath. Did you enjoy my little gifts of sorrow? I put ever so much thought into them!
Corrin: I will never forgive you for all that, Iago. Prepare to die!
Iago: Ha! So the imprisoned little prince/princess fancies himself/herself all grown up. The king ordered me to make you suffer without killing you... But I can no longer comply. In order to see my plans to fruition, you must die! Say your prayers, Lord/Lady Corrin!

@End 
Iago: Eeeeek! No! NO, PLEASE! I don't wanna d-d-die!!
Corrin: It's over, Iago. Have some dignity and let me finish you off quickly.
Iago: Please, Lord/Lady Corrin! Spare me! Have mercy! All we did was follow King Garon's orders, just like you! If you don't like our tactics, blame him! Punish him instead! I'm innocent! Innocent, I say! You wouldn't kill an innocent man, would you?
Corrin: ...
Leo: Yeesh, this is getting embarrassing. How low are you going to stoop, Iago?
Iago: Lord Leo! I've known you since you were a child! As wise as you are, surely you understand the awful situation I'm in! Please, milord! Spare me! Tell your army how absurd it would be to kill me!
Leo: You are an eyesore, Iago. A cruel fiend who deserves nothing but a blade at your neck. I haven't any mercy to spare for someone like you. You are naught but a spineless coward who brings shame upon our beloved Nohr. These are your final moments. I suggest you muster some dignity for them.
Iago: Lord Leo? No! You can't! You—
Leo: For all the pain you have caused...to hell with you!!
Iago: GAAAAAAAH!!

Leo: *sigh* It is done.
Corrin: Thank you, Leo.
Leo: It was nothing. It actually feels really nice, knowing he's out of our lives.
Elise: That's our Leo! Always thinking of the big picture and stuff!
Camilla: Good work, Brother. Now no one remains who can harm our precious Corrin.
Xander: Yes. This was truly our final battle.
Azura: Corrin... I think it's time.
Corrin: I know, Azura. I know. Everyone...I need to tell you something.
Xander: Oh? What's that?
Corrin: The war isn't over just yet. There's still someone we must defeat before our world can know peace.
Xander: Out with it, Corrin.
Corrin: I'm sorry, but... That person is King Garon.
Leo: Father?!
Camilla: You...you can't really be telling us to kill our own father, can you?
Elise: That's a horrible thing to say! Why would you say something like that, Corrin?! I know he's rough around the edges, but together we can change him!
Xander: Explain yourself, Corrin. You have our attention.
Corrin: OK. This isn't going to be easy to hear... But you have to know. I fought so hard and sacrificed so much for this moment. I lost Lilith, Ryoma...even myself to an extent, just to make it this far. I did all that so I could show you, my family, the truth about Father.
Xander: And what is this truth of which you speak?
Corrin: Father...King Garon...is no longer human. He has become a monster, kept alive by someone or something truly unholy. There is no way to save him at this point...defeating him is our only option.
Xander: That's impossible... You must be joking!
Corrin: I'm sorry, Xander, but I'm dead serious. I had a hard time believing it myself, but I swear it's the truth. I can prove it to you, too. The truth about our Father...lies behind those doors.
Xander: ...
Corrin: Please, follow me. Let's go, Azura. We've waited long enough.
Azura: As you wish, Corrin.@Intro 
Flora: Time to wake up, Lord/Lady Corrin!

Felicia: Hey, wake up, Lord/Lady Corrin! Up and at 'em!

Corrin: Hrmmm...What are you talking about? It's still dark outside.
Gunter: Listen well, Prince. It may be dark, but it is indeed in the morning. You have practice today.
Jakob: I have taken the liberty of reading your armor, and, er, pounding out the dents. Your brother is a fearsome opponent, is he not?
Corrin: Ugh. Fine. I'm still not completely awake though...
Flora: Oh, we can help you with that! Felicia, would you please assist me?
Felicia: Sure thing!

Corrin: Waauuugh! Cold cold cold! I'm awake! Totally awake now!

Flora: That's how we deal with slugabeds in the Ice Tribe!
Corrin: *sigh* Trust me, I know. I wish I could have finished the dream I was having though...
Jakob: Interesting. Do tell-what kind of dream was it?
Corrin: It was...strange. Some people who look like Hoshidans kept calling me their brother/sister. But all of my brothers and sisters are here in Nohr...
Flora: Ah, Lord/Lady Corrin, perhaps we should talk about your dream another time?
Felicia: It's time for you to get going, milord/milady. Prince Xander is waiting for you!


Leo: That's our brother/sister for you. You won't beat the strongest knight in Nohr by sleeping all day, Corrin!
Xander: Giving up so soon, Corrin? I expect more of you. You are a prince/princess of Nohr! Pick up your sword and try again.
Corrin: But, Xander, I-
Xander: We train like this so that we can defend ourselves from our enemies. Father has been tracking your progress. If you can't land a hit on me today...he may never permit you to leave the Northern Fortress. Ever.
Corrin: What?! D-did he really say that? That's insane!
Xander: Motivated, are we? Then use that fire to best me in battle, little Prince/Princess. If you would see the outside world beyond the view from your window, defeat me. Prove that all of the time I've devoted to training you have not be in vain!

@Battle 
Xander: The first move is yours, Corrin. Come at me when you are ready.

Xander: You swing timidly, without resolve. You must genuinely try to kill me.

Corrin: *pant*...*pant*...
Xander: Hmm, looks like that wound needs attention. In that case...

Corrin: Ah! There was a Dragon Vein here?
Xander: Yes. You should have sensed it as well. The blood of dragons flows in your veins, as it does in all royals. You must learn to harness this draconic power wherever you may find it. Heal your wounds, Corrin, then find the courage to come at me again.

Xander: Good. Now that you've recovered some of your strength, try again!

Xander: Well done, Corrin.

Corrin: Brother... how are you... so strong...?
Xander: Is that all it takes to defeat you? What a shame. I guess you don't wish to leave this fortress after all...

@End 
Xander: Well done, Corrin. You're getting stronger every day.
Corrin: Thanks, Xander. I couldn't have done it without your, uh, tough love.
Xander: I disagree. I believe you have natural talent. Some day, you could be the greatest warrior in all of Nohr.
Corrin: Now you're just teasing me.
Xander: You know me, Corrin. I never joke about serious matters. I mean what I say. You could be the one to bring light to our kingdom so long shrouded in darkness.
Corrin: Xander...
Leo: Typical. You know that true strength is more than simple swordplay, right?
Corrin: Leo, he didn't mean-
Xander: Calm yourself, little brother. You really are competitive to a fault. As I've always said, you're a talented mage with formidable magical abilities.
Leo: Hmm. Well, just remember that pointy metal sticks are not the only path to power.
Corrin: Oh, that reminds me of something I've been meaning to tell you, Leo.
Leo: Something important enough to derail this conversation?
Corrin: Well...your collar is inside out.
Leo:  What?!
Xander: It would appear someone got dressed while still half-asleep.

Leo: Ugh! Wh-why didn't you say something earlier?!
Xander: Haha, sorry, Leo. But that sort of thing is what makes you so lovable.
Corrin: Absolutely.
Leo: Hmph...

Camilla: Are you all right, Corrin? Did you get hurt at all during practice? If you did, let me know right away so I can take extra-special care of you...
Corrin: I'm perfectly fine, Camilla. As always, thanks for your concern.
Elise: I was worried about you too, Corrin!
Corrin: I know, Elise. You wouldn't visit me all the time if you didn't care so much, right?
Elise: Heehee... Do you like it when I visit?
Corrin: Of course! I'm not allowed to leave this fortress, so visits are all I look forward to!
Elise: Yaaay! I'm glad to hear that. Spending time with my brother/sister makes me so happy!

Corrin: Gah!
Elise: I love you so much! I love you more than anything in the whole, wide world!
Leo: Elise, when do you intend to behave like the adult that you technically are?
Camilla: Well, I for one think her cheer is a good complement to this gloomy kingdom, Leo.
Corrin: Well said, Camilla. Every one of you is so dear to me. You've all been so patient and kind since I lost my memory... I don't even mind being quarantined when I'm with you. I'm so grateful to have you all.
Xander: We are grateful to have you as well. But, Corrin, I have some-
Camilla: Let me tell him/her, Xander! We have wonderful news, Corrin! Father asked us to take you back to the capital!
Corrin: Really?! Does that mean...
Camilla: Yes. It means you can finally leave this drafty fortress. You must have been so lonely all this time, separated from the rest of the world... But now you'll be free!
Elise: Isn't that wonderful?!
Corrin: It...it really is. Thanks, Elise. Wow... I'm finally leaving this place... Maybe now I can join you all as a soldier, fighting for Nohr?
Xander: There will be plenty of time to discuss the details with Father. Let us depart.

Lilith: I hear you can finally leave the fortress. You must be very happy, Lord/Lady Corrin. Gunter has asked me to go with you to the capital so I can look after your horses.
Corrin: Glad to hear it! I'd miss you if you weren't coming along too.
Xander: Lilith, are the horses ready?
Lilith: Yes, milord. Everything is ready, and the horses seem excited about the trip. They are all very fond of Lord/Lady Corrin. Probably from all his/her time in the stables...
Camilla: Our Corrin does love animals. Such a kindhearted soul... Why he/she even nursed an injured baby bird back to health one time!
Lilith: Ah...
Corrin: Lilith, is something wrong?
Lilith: Oh...no. It's nothing.
Elise: Isn't it obvious, Corrin? Lilith is sad because she's going to miss you!
Corrin: Miss me? But she's coming with us.
Elise: Oh, right! Well then, I bet she's sad 'cause she won't have you all to herself anymore. You've always been especially fond of our brother/sister, haven't you, Lilith?
Lilith: I, er-
Xander: As gripping as all this is, we should be on our way. We mustn't keep Father waiting.
Corrin: Yes, let's go!
Gunter: Flora, you and Felicia/Jakob will remain here to watch over the fortress. Felicia/Jakob and I will accompany Lord/Lady Corrin. We may be gone for some time. Take good care of this place.
Flora: Of course! You may rely on us.
Felicia:  Safe travels, Lady Corrin!
Jakob:  I wish you safe travels, Lord Corrin.
Corrin: Thank you. I hope to see both of you again soon...just not here!@Intro 
Corrin: Camilla, are you sure we shouldn't go straight home?
Camilla: Yes, silly Brother/Sister. Father wishes to meet with us here in Cyrkensia. It's his favorite town in all of Nestra.
Corrin: But isn't it dangerous for Father to travel to a place like this?
Camilla: It's fine. Father comes here often, and nothing bad has ever happened. Nestra is neutral territory, so you need not fear unless you try to start a fight.
Corrin: Oh, I see. So we should all be safe here. That's a relief.
Leo: It's always best to remain on guard. Stay on your toes, Corrin. This territory may be neutral, but there might be unruly Hoshidans about.
Corrin: Leo!!
Leo: Long time no see, Brother/Sister.
Corrin: I'm so happy to see you! Did you finish Father's mission already?
Leo: For the most part. All that's left is to guard Father during his time here. After that, I'm free to do as I please. That means I'll be joining you.
Corrin: Thank you, Leo. I'll feel much better with you on our team.
Odin: Milord! You've finally arrived! I’ve been so worried... My mind has been spiraling intro a dark abyss ever since we parted!
Niles: It's nice to have you back. While you were doing the king's bidding we couldn't help but wonder what awful trials he was forcing you to endure. We've been terribly worried.
Leo: Whoa! This has gotten way too mushy way too fast!! I appreciate your concern, both of you, but give me some breathing room!
Odin: Heh, sorry...
Niles: As you wish, milord.
Leo: If you are quite finished, Father should be here shortly. I'm expected to be at the theatre well before he arrives. If you'll excuse me...
Corrin: The theatre? What theatre?
Leo: Ah, that's right. This is your first time in the fair town of Cyrkensia. This place is known for its incredible singers and dancers. They always put on a big performance whenever Father comes to visit.
Corrin: That's interesting... Sounds exciting.
Leo: If you're free, you should take the time to watch. It's sure to be breathtaking. Even warriors need to rest now and then. Just don't get carried away. Anyway, I really must be going. I'll catch up with you later!
Corrin: Bye, Leo!

Corrin: It's so hard to put up a front when I'm still reeling from the tragedy in Cheve. As fun as it sounds, I'm in no mood for a show right now. Maybe Hans was lying. It's possible Father didn't really intend for us to... I'll ask him about it whenever I get the chance. I need to know. And if he did give the order, maybe I can convince him there's a better way.

Corrin: Wow! THIS is Cyrkensia's opera house?! It's incredible...
Leo: Corrin! Over here!
Corrin: There you are, Leo! I'm glad I finally found you. I've never seen such a huge crowd.
Leo: It's something else, isn't it? You're just in time. Father arrived moments ago. Father... Corrin is here.
Garon: ...
Corrin: Father...
Garon: Corrin, I have received word about the incident in Cheve. I am told you eradicated the rebels, as well as the unarmed townspeople.
Corrin: Father, let me explain...
Garon: You did well, Corrin.
Corrin: Huh?!
Garon: When I heard that your group destroyed Cheve, I couldn't have been prouder. Rebellions are like seeds. One must salt the earth before they sprout. I knew you'd eventually come around and learn to accept my method of ruling. I'm told you even enjoyed watching the life spark fade from the injured rebel soldiers. Hans praised you highly for displaying behavior befitting a Nohrian royal.
Corrin: But, Father... That's not true! Why would Hans say that?! I need to talk to you about what happened in Cheve. If you'll please allow me to–
Iago: Lord/Lady Corrin, the performance is about to begin. Please take your seat.
Corrin: But–
Iago: Such an important show cannot be delayed for one person, even a prince/princess. You can discuss your newfound Nohrian pride with King Garon later.
Leo: What's wrong, Brother/Sister? Did something happen in Cheve?
Corrin: Yes, Leo... Something awful. But I suppose I'll have to discuss it with Father later.
Leo: Yes I'm afraid so. We can't keep the performers waiting. Your seat is right over there. Please hurry–it's about to begin.
Corrin: OK, I'm going. I'll fill you in later, Leo.

Corrin: Huh... It occurs to me I haven't seen Azura in a while. She would love to see this... I hope she found a seat elsewhere.

Azura: Embrace the dark you call a home, ♪ Gaze upon an empty, white throne...

Garon: Argh... Urgh...!!
Iago: My king! What's wrong?! King Garon!! Soldiers! Capture that performer! Do it NOW! Her song may have been a curse of some kind...
Corrin: A curse?! Father...
Leo: Corrin! Hurry, we need to catch that singer! Huh?! The stage... It's empty.
Corrin: Did she get away?! Well, she couldn't have gotten far. Let's hurry!
Leo: Right!
Kumagera: Stop right there, Nohrians.

Corrin: Hoshidan soldiers?!
Kumagera: Back away if you wish to live. This war ends now... And the way to peace begins with the Nohrian king's death.
Corrin: You intend to buy peace with death? That's madness!
Leo: So the Hoshidans are responsible for that singer's curse. I should have known.
Kumagera: Singer? Curse? What are you rambling on about?
Leo: Don't play dumb. One of your underlings performed a cursed song to hurt our father!
Kumagera: I have no idea what you're referring to, nor do I care. Leave it to a filthy Nohrian to fabricate a story to try and distract us.
Leo: You're a liar and a coward! I won't let you get away with this!

Azura: Corrin, what's going on?!
Corrin: Azura! Where have you been?
Azura: Sorry I'm late. I wasn't feeling well, so I went outside to get some air. Why are there Hoshidan soldiers here?
Corrin: They've come to kill Father. They used some strange song to incapacitate him. Oh! While you were outside, did you see a strange woman fleeing the opera house?
Azura: ...No. I did not.
Kumagera: So you refuse to back down, eh? We'll just have to kill you all! Troops! Prepare to attack!
Leo: Dammit... We have no choice. We'll have to fight them off!
Corrin: Let's do this.

@Battle 
Keaton: *sigh* I've made a real mess for myself. I came down the mountain to gather bugs for my collection, but now I'm lost... Hm? What's going on over there? I thought I heard a ruckus, but wow, that's a lot of people. Hmm... HMM... Ah! That guy/lady looks nice. I'll ask him/her for directions back up the mountain. I may have a horrible sense of direction, but I'm a great judge of character!

@Recruit-Talk 
%Corrin,Keaton
Keaton: Hey, you! Yeah, you with the sword and the hair and stuff!!
Corrin: WHAA! Wh-why does that man have a tail?!
Keaton: Wow, really? That's really how you're gonna play this? I thought you looked like a nice guy/lady, but you clearly have issues... For the record, I am NOT a man with a tail. I'm a wolfskin, and proud of it.
Corrin: Wolfskin? Sorry, but what's that?
Keaton: Seriously? Have you been living in isolation your whole life or what?
Corrin: Actually...
Keaton: As a wolfskin, I can transform into a wolf by using a beaststone. Pretty killer, eh?
Corrin: Wow, it really is! Sorry, I've lived a rather...sheltered life. I hope I didn't offend you. May I ask what you're doing here?
Keaton: Well, I'm sort of...just a bit...unsure of my whereabouts. I can't find my way home. I was thinking maybe...ya know...you could help a fella out?
Corrin: Ah, so that's why you called out to me. You're lost, poor thing.
Keaton: No! No... I mean...maybe. I'm maybe just a little lost. but mostly not lost at all. It's complicated.
Corrin: Sorry, but I actually don't know this area, much less the way back to your home.
Keaton: Oh, I see. well, whatever. I can manage on my own. I'll be fine...
Corrin: Wait! Why don't you join my team? You can stick with us until you find your way home. You seem like you'd be a great ally. What do you say?
Keaton: Join your group... Hmm... Well, I could find my way home anytime I wanted. Let's get that clear. But if you really think I'd be helpful, I can't very well turn you down.
Corrin: Ha, your tail is wagging! Does that mean you're happy right now? Happy to join us?
Keaton: My tail is NOT wagging! It's not! Got it?! Anyway, I guess it's settled. Nice to know ya! The name's Keaton. As a token of our new friendship, I'd like you to have this treasure I came across.
Corrin: It's a...hair ball...?!
Keaton: Heh heh, gorgeous, ain't it? Best one I've seen in ages. No need to thank me. As my new pal, I'm entrusting this gem to you. You better take good care of it, or else!
Corrin: Thanks... I'll do that.

@Boss 
Kumagera: We're not leaving until King Garon has met his maker. Stay out of our way!

@End 
Corrin: We somehow managed to win...but it seems that singer got away. Who even has the kind of power necessary to curse Father with a song?
Leo: I don't know, but I intend to find out. She's most certainly with the Hoshidans. We'll all be in a world of hurt if she shows up again. She must be stopped.
Corrin: I'm not convinced she was Hoshidan... I have a strange feeling that...

Garon: Corrin!
Corrin: Father? How are you feeling?
Garon: I'm fine, my son/daughter. I have a new task for you. Kill all of the singers in Nestra. Every last one of them.
Corrin: WHAT?! Y-you can't be serious! It was the Hoshidans who attacked us. The other performers are innocent!
Garon: Foolish boy/girl. This is the only way to keep our royal family safe. Perhaps if you had caught the guilty party, the others could have been spared. But we must destroy anyone who might pose a threat to the Nohrian throne. As I said, rebellions are like seeds, and we must salt the earth before they sprout. You've seen many battles by now. Surely you've at least learned that much.
Corrin: But Father! I won't—
Iago: Consider it done, my king.
Hans: Leave it to us, Your Majesty.
Garon: Iago, Hans. I look forward to hearing good news of Corrin's efforts.

Corrin: Wait! Both of you! Father, I tried to bring this up earlier, but now it simply can't wait. You keep ordering me to take lives of innocent people. Why? If we showed mercy and tried to talk things out instead, no one would have to die. Even if we manage to win the war this way, people will lose faith in our kingdom. That's hardly even winning...
Garon: Lose faith? Are you a princess or a saint, foolish child? After what you did in Cheve, I'm shocked to hear such a moralistic complaint.
Corrin: It's true... I didn't stop Hans in Cheve, as much as I wanted to. But what happened there tortures me, Father. It's no way to solve a conflict. Killing innocent people for our own benefit...for selfish glory and control... Is that really the Nohrian way? Is that really the legacy you wish to leave behind?!
Garon: You finally understand, though you still fight it. I desire only to rule Hoshido. I, and those who follow me, will do whatever it takes to achieve that. I don't care if the peons that fill our towns don’t trust us. They are nothing to me. Those who disobey will die. The rest will quickly learn.
Corrin: !!
Leo: Corrin, that's enough. Let's go. Father, Corrin is clearly exhausted from his/her travels and our recent battle. Please forgive his/her rude remarks. He/She doesn't truly feel that way.
Corrin: That's not true, Leo!
Leo: I said that's enough! Let's go. NOW.
Corrin: ...

Leo: What were you thinking, challenging Father like that? Do you have a death wish?
Corrin: Leo, you heard the awful things he said. You don't agree with him...right? You can't agree that it's acceptable to kill innocent people for our own benefit!
Leo: Of course I don't. Why do you think I helped you save Kaze and Rinkah? But just because we disagree doesn't mean we can openly disobey Father. If you do, one of these days he'll overreact a have you killed on the spot. Trust me, Brother/Sister. It's best to just stay silent and follow orders.
Corrin: That's what Camilla said...
Leo: Your other siblings and I have been living under Father's thumb our whole lives. I am certain Xander and Elise would tell you the same thing.
Corrin: I see. I know that's how you and the others have been forced to live all these years... I understand your perspective, but I simply can't carry out the orders Father just gave. I refuse to harm the innocent. All I want to do is protect them—to protect everyone.

Leo: Corrin, wait! Think about who you're talking to. You know me better than that. As I said, we must follow Father's orders...or at least appear to follow them.

Corrin: What do you mean?
Leo: Listen well. We may not be able to openly disobey him, but we're not powerless. Us royal siblings have made an art of appearing to be good little soldiers... All while secretly manipulating things for the better from behind the scenes. How do you think we've survived this long with our souls intact?
Corrin: Leo... I'm impressed. But isn't it dangerous to go behind Father's back all the time?
Leo: Sometimes the righteous path is the most treacherous one to walk. Listen up. Start searching in unlikely places to give the performers time to escape. If our soldiers catch any of them, I'll step in and insist on killing them myself. I can't promise we'll be able to save them all, but that's the best I can do.
Corrin: Leo... Thank you. I'm sorry I doubted you, even if just for a moment.
Leo: Heh, no worries. But don't think I'm doing this for you! You know how whiny Camilla and Elise get when you're unhappy. No one wants that. Besides, doing things like this is exciting. It's not like I'm a hero or anything.

Leo: Huh?! My Brynhildr is...glowing! And so is your Yato... What's going on?!
Corrin: Could it be? Is this the transformation the Rainbow Sage spoke of...? WHOA!!

Corrin: The Yato has transformed! This must be the Grim Yato the rainbow Sage told me about.
Leo: Grim Yato... what are you talking about?! Did I miss something?
Corrin: In Notre Sagesse, I sought out the Rainbow Sage as Xander suggested. The Sage said I would soon join forces with another hero of Nohr... And when I did, that my Yato would evolve into the Grim Yato.
Leo: The Sage said that? Incredible. Does that mean...I'm that Nohrian hero?
Corrin: That's the only explanation. There's some sort of otherworldly connection between our weapons. The sage also said my sword is fated to become the true Seal of Flames. That's all he was able to tell me.
Leo: The Seal of Flames... I wish I had time to digest all this, but time is a luxury we don't have. Iago and Hans might have already captured some of the singers. I'll leave you here. Promise not to challenge Father while I'm gone. I mean that, Brother/Sister. Your life depends on it.
Corrin: ...@Intro 
Elise: *SIGH* It's no use, Corrin! The Wind Tribe refuses to let us pass through their territory. They said if we even set one foot on their land, they'll attack. Big meanies!
Corrin: Don't worry, Elise. We'll figure something out.
Camilla: It's quite bothersome, darling. The Wind Tribe is supposed to be neutral. What's more, cutting through their village is the only safe option we have left.
Elise: Big ol' liars! They're about as neutral as...um... Oh, you know what I mean! They weren't even remotely swayed when Camilla used her feminine wiles on them! That can only mean one thing... They hate Nohr. Or women. Or just Nohrian women.
Camilla: Elise, you silly thing. I did not use wiles of any kind, love. But you may have a point about them hating Nohr. Long ago, their village was attacked by Faceless, sent there by Nohrian mages. That said, I'm afraid there's probably little we can do to win them over.
Corrin: Hmmm. Well, something must be done. I'm going to try reasoning with them one more time.
Camilla: You are? Oh, little Corrin! Are you sure that's a good idea?
Corrin: It's our only option, I'm afraid. If that attack still has them apprehensive, I'll apologize on Nohr's behalf. We must earn their trust—show them that our new way is the way of peace.
Camilla: Aww, what a sweet little brother/sister I have! But, darling, what if they don't listen? What if they try to attack you?! The thought is just too much to bear!
Corrin: I appreciate your concern, Camilla, but I'll be fine! We must end this war as soon as possible. We haven't a moment to lose. As wielder of the Yato, it is my duty to do whatever I can to bring peace to the world. Wait here for me, OK? This may take a while, but I'm certain we'll eventually come to an understanding.
Camilla: Oh, Corrin... Be so careful.

Fuga: Ho ho, I can see the fierce determination blazing in your eyes, outsider.
Corrin: Ah. Can you? That's good. Erm... Who are you?
Fuga: I am Fuga, chief of the Wind Tribe.
Corrin: Oh! Sorry, I had no idea. I am Prince/Princess Corrin of Nohr. May I request an audience with you?
Fuga: Hmm. I was informed there were outsiders at the entrance of my village. Not just any outsiders, but ones claiming to be Nohrian royalty. I am intrigued.

Fuga: It must have taken great courage for a Nohrian prince/princess to face me like this. I will hear what you have to say.
Corrin: You will?! Thank you!
Fuga: Yes, but not here. The winds cry out with a ferocity no mortal could hope to rival. We shall venture to my castle, Reppu. There, your story will be heard. ...Corrin, is it? In time I will require some information. It's about that blade you grasp. Come.
Corrin: My sword? Hmm...

Fuga: That's quite a tale you just told. I believe I understand your aim. Just this once, I will allow your army to pass through this village. I will alert my people that you are welcomed guests who are not to be disturbed.
Corrin: Thank you so much, sir! Oh, but before I depart... You said there was something you wanted to ask me?
Fuga: Yes. It is about that golden blade of yours. That is the legendary Yato, is it not?
Corrin: Yes, it is. How did you know?
Fuga: I used to be close friends with Sumeragi, the former king of Hoshido. I was always enthralled by the various Hoshidan legends he shared with me. The legend behind that blade of yours particularly captured my imagination...
Corrin: You were friends with the Hoshidan king?! But wouldn't that make you...our enemy?
Fuga: Calm yourself, young prince/princess. That was many years ago. My tribe has since adopted a policy of neutrality in regard to this war. Though Sumeragi was a friend of mine, we are not allied with Hoshido. However...
Corrin: What's wrong?
Fuga: That divine Yato is the key to the Seal of Flames. Sumeragi once warned me...that if it fell into the wrong hands, it would lead to our world's destruction.
Corrin: I would never let that happen! This blade...it chose me. The Rainbow Sage told me it was my destiny to wield it. That with this Yato, I was fated to unlock the Seal of Flames and end this war.
Fuga: But are you truly worthy? I believe a test is in order. If you are unworthy of wielding the Yato, I will pry it from your dead hands!
Corrin: What?! But you just said that we could pass through here safely!
Fuga: You may—if what you say is true, and you truly mean to bring about peace. If not, the blade will fail you, and I shall take up its noble cause in your stead.
Corrin: Please, wait! I don't want to fight you!
Leo: Don't worry, Corrin. Just show him what you're made of. This battle is no different than all the other ones we've fought and won.
Xander: You can do this. You're stronger now than I ever could have imagined. Your family is behind you all the way. Together, we shall prevail.
Fuga: Ho ho, what have we here? Two more wielders of legendary weapons! The glistening metal of Siegfried working alongside the ancient pages of Brynhildr... This fight will be the stuff of legends! Let me witness the power of those who align themselves with the Yato wielder. I will gather my best soldiers, including one nearly as skilled as myself... Hayato!
Hayato: Hmph. I'm right here, Fuga.
Corrin: A child? You expect me to clash blades with a cute little boy?!
Hayato: I am no child, fool. My name is Hayato. You should thank the gods you have the chance to face one as talented as I am.
Corrin: Um, right. OK then. He sure is confident for someone so...diminutive. He looks shorter than Elise.
Hayato: What?! What does height have to do with anything? Foul beast! Fuga! We're not gonna let him/her get away with insulting our honor are we?!
Fuga: Ho ho ho. If you're that angry, then exact your revenge on the battlefield. You are the most talented mage in the entire village, young one. Unleash your power, and show these outsiders the Wind Tribe's might!
Hayato: Hmph, like I'm even capable of holding back.
Fuga: Prince/Princess Corrin, the time has come. We will be waiting outside the castle. Come find us when you are ready to meet your fate head-on.
Corrin: If this is how it must be, so be it.

@Boss 
Hayato: Let's get this over with. I have better things to do.

Hayato: Hmph! You're stronger...than you appear...

Fuga: Are you worthy to follow he/she who wields the legendary Yato? If so, prove it!

%Corrin,Hayato 
Hayato: So you're the one the divine Yato chose? Pfft. Laughable. I thought the chosen hero would be a warrior, but you're more bark than bite.
Corrin: I'm being ridiculed...by a child. *sigh*. When Fuga told me I'd be battling someone as strong as he was...you're not exactly what I had in mind.
Hayato: I TOLD you I'm no child! Do not underestimate me, fool! Prepare to crumble beneath the weight of my magic!
Corrin: Do your worst, kid!

%Corrin,Fuga 
Fuga: The time has come, Corrin. Show me what you're made of. Prove to me and to yourself that you are worthy to wield the divine Yato!
Corrin: I used to wonder myself if I was worthy. But now that I stand before you... All of my doubts have fallen away upon the wind. Behold my power!

@End 
Fuga: You fought well, Corrin. As did your loyal allies. I see now you truly are worthy of wielding the Yato. The divine blade chose well.
Corrin: Do you truly believe that? ... Thank you. I'm...I'm so happy!
Hayato: Wah? Why are you smiling like that?! You look ridiculous!
Corrin: I'm just so grateful to finally put my own doubts to rest. All this time, I've struggled with the question of whether or not I'm worthy... Whether or not I chose the right path... Whether I can truly use this divine blade to bring peace to the world...
Hayato: For our fated hero, he/she's so...humble. It's odd!
Fuga: Worry not, young prince/princess. Your power is beyond question, and your aim is true. No matter what path you walk or which kingdom you fight for... I am certain you will always make the right choice and use that blade for good.
Corrin: Thank you, Fuga.
Hayato: Hmph, fine. If Fuga accepts you as a hero, I suppose I must do the same.
Corrin: Thanks, Hayato. Glad to hear it.
Hayato: But know that the next time we meet on the battlefield, I won't lose. Divine blade or no divine blade, I won't tolerate a defeat! While you're off saving the world, I'm going to keep training. When this war is over, come face me again. If you have the guts, that is.
Corrin: Haha, I better end this war soon then. I don't need you getting any stronger!
Hayato: Hmph, you speak the truth. I look forward to our rematch. Good luck, Corrin. May the winds be ever at your back.
Fuga: Come, Corrin. I will show your people the way through our village.

Azura: Are you ready for this, Corrin? We'll arrive at the Hoshidan capital soon. The battles ahead will be our most difficult yet. Prepare yourself.
Corrin: I'm ready. As ready as I'll ever be...@Intro 
Corrin: Well, it took some doing, but we've finally arrived at Notre Sagesse. The ferry ride over was rather smooth too. Perhaps our luck is improving.
Silas: Perhaps. Although, I must admit, I can't shake this strange feeling I have...
Corrin: Oh? Is something the matter?
Silas: Well, King Garon said this place would be overflowing with Hoshidans. And yet we were able to disembark from the ferry without so much as a scuffle.
Corrin: That's a good point. I was so happy that we arrived safely, it hadn't occurred to me.
Silas: As a matter of fact, I don't see any soldiers around here either. Not a single one. I can't help thinking this is either a trap or some big misunderstanding.
Corrin: We'll keep our eyes open. In the meantime, I must learn more about the Rainbow Sage. Let's talk to the locals. Maybe they can help solve these mysteries. Oi! You there! Pardon me, ma'am, but may I speak with you a moment?
Old Woman: Hm? Are you talking to me?
Corrin: I am. So sorry to bother you, but I was hoping you might be able to help me. To start, we had heard that the Hoshidan army was stationed here, but it seems...
Old Woman: Hoshidans? Yeah, there was a whole group of 'em around here not too long ago. They were armed up to their teeth. Didn't do us no harm, but they were a bit forceful. They took the Rainbow Sage, though. Said they was his new guards. Most of us thought that was a load o' horse dung, but who are we to argue?
Corrin: They kidnapped the Rainbow Sage?! Dastards! Do you happen to know where they took him?
Old Woman: Surely. They carted him up Mount Sagesse. It's right over there - ya can't miss it. You fellas ain't plannin' on goin' up there, are you? Cuz that's a fool's errand. There ain't nothin' but heartache up there. If ya like livin', you'd best stay down here.
Corrin: What do you mean?
Old Woman: Climbing that mountain is like the ultimate test o' grit and the like. Every now and then some kook tries to scale it. Most never make it back. Rumor has it, if you reach the summit and enter the Sevenfold Sanctuary... you die.
Corrin: Sevenfold Sanctuary... How mysterious.
Azura: What do you want to do, Corrin? It sounds like a trap.
Corrin: It does, but that can't be helped. There's no turning back now. If we fail this mission, I truly believe Father will have me killed. He's using these missions to test me, maybe even torment me. I mustn't falter. I must end this war at all costs, but I can't do that if I'm dead. If I'm to be tested here, so be it. I shall not fail.
Azura: I understand. If you insist on going, I won't try to stop you. I will follow you to the end.
Corrin: Thank you, Azura. 
Old Woman: I don't know why you came here or why you wanna climb that thing, but good luck. Just try yer best not to croak, ya hear? It pains me every time some young wannabe hero dies tryin' to scale that mountain. 
Corrin: I promise I shall return safely. Thank you for the valuable information, ma'am. You have our gratitude. 

Corrin: *pant* *pant*  Phew! Climbing this thing really is a test. A test of endurance. Good gods, this is taking forever. 
Camilla: Aww, my poor widdle Corrin. You look so exhausted! Why don't you have a little rest? You can ride my dragon for a bit. 
Corrin: That's very sweet of you, Camilla. But I'll survive. Surely someone else could use the break more then myself. 
Camilla: Oh, Corrin. Why are you so cute?! I want to hug you and never let you go! I'll never forgive those pesky Hoshidans for making you suffer like this. When we get to the top, I'll make sure they pay tenfold for the pain they've caused you!  ... Hmm? What might that be? I think I see something.
Corrin: Could it be... the Sevenfold Sanctuary? 
Azura: It would appear so. This is where the battle truly begins. Stay on your guard. The place is likely filled with Hoshidan soldiers waiting to ambush.
Camilla: Don't worry, Corrin. This is nothing to fret over. I'm with you all the way, and so are the rest of us. And if your evil fake Hoshidan sisters are in there, all the better. I will not lose. 
Corrin: You're right - we must win no matter what, no matter who we find inside. 

Kaze: Pardon the interruption, Lady Hinoka, but the Nohrian army has arrived. 
Hinoka: What?! They actually climbed the mountain and lived to tell the tale? Their little ragtag team is more skilled then I gave them credit for. Still, there's no way they can best our troops after such an exhausting climb. We must keep the Rainbow Sage out of their grasp no matter what. Prepare for battle, everyone! This is NOT a drill!

@Boss 
Azama: Why must you resort to violence? I really do despise savages...

Azama: You have much strength... I am loath to do so, but I must retreat...

Setsuna: You made it all the way up here... Surprising...

Setsuna: I lost. Oh, well. Guess I'll retreat for now...

Rinkah: I am Rinkah, proud daughter of the Flame Tribe's chief. I will not allow you to capture the Rainbow Sage!

Rinkah: Why didn't... you kill me? Perhaps we were wrong about Nohr... No, it can't be! This way of peace must be... Corrin's path...

Kaze: I am Kaze, a ninja in the service of the Hoshidan royal family. But enough pleasantries... to battle!

Kaze: Such power... and determination... you are truly a worthy opponent. Perhaps the royal family was wrong about Nohrians...

Hinoka: I applaud you for making it this far, but your journey ends here. I will not allow you to take this territory OR the Rainbow Sage!

Hinoka: Forgive me, Hoshido... I just wasn't ... strong enough...

%Corrin,Azama 
Azama: Lord/Lady Corrin, I presume? Lady Hinoka speaks of you often. 
Corrin: Sh-she does? 
Azama: She does. She said you are her "sweet little brother/sister". But I'm confused... Given her praises, I never expected to see you attacking a defenseless monk. You must have given in to the savagery so abundant in the Kingdom of Nohr. But if fate would have you cut me down, so be it. Do as you will, I am not afraid.

%Corrin,Setsuna 
Setsuna: You're Lord/Lady Corrin, yes? I'm Setsuna... I'm Lady Hinoka's retainer... Nice to meet you. 
Corrin: Polite even to the enemy... I'd expect nothing less from Hinoka's guardian.
Setsuna: Oh, are you the enemy? Even though you're her brother/sister? Huh.
Corrin: Um... yes. I mean, it's complicated. Did you really not know that?
Setsuna: Hm? No... Maybe? It doesn't really matter... Guess it's time for you to die now.

%Corrin,Rinkah 
Rinkah: I don't wish to fight you, Corrin. But it seems I have no choice. 
Corrin: I don't want to fight you either. After all, I owe you my life. You took me back to Hoshido during my hour of need.
Rinkah: Well, you saved my life as well. If you hadn't intervened, King Garon would have killed me. 
Corrin: I wish it didn't have to be this way, but I can't afford to back down. It's difficult to explain, but it's for the good of all. Please forgive me.
Rinkah: We understand each-other perfectly. Enough talk. Prepare yourself. I may owe you my life, but I don't have it in me to hold back!

%Corrin,Kaze 
Kaze: So we meet again, Lord/Lady Corrin. After our last encounter, I did not think we would battle again. But as an enemy of Hoshido, it is my duty to take you down. I respect you too much to hold back. I shall do all I can to vanquish you. 
Corrin: I understand, and I shall do the same. Let's do this!

%Corrin,Hinoka
Hinoka: Corrin! We meet at last!
Corrin: Hinoka...so you're the one who took the Rainbow Sage.
Hinoka: You really are fighting for Nohr eh? I had to see it with my own eyes. You know, I spent so many years wishing that I could be near you. Now you're right in front of me, but we couldn't be further apart.
Corrin: I'm sorry it had to be this way. I know you wanted me to return to Hoshido and for us to be a family. It kills me to have caused you so much pain. It is a burden I shall always bear. However I... I...
Hinoka: I know. You needn't say another word. I also know you won't hold back. I can read your sad eyes like an open book. After all, though we hardly know each other, you're still my little brother/sister.
Corrin: Hinoka....
Hinoka: If you're that determined to fight, then so be it. Let's see if all that resolve is enough to take down your own sister!

%Azura,Hinoka
Hinoka: Azura?! Is that really you?
Azura: Hello, Hinoka.
Hinoka: Thank goodness you’re safe! I was so upset when I heard you were missing. I’m sorry we couldn’t stop those rogue soldiers from taking you away. You must have gone through a lot of pain and suffering, but it’s over now. Come on back to Hoshido with me, I’ll keep you safe from the Nohrians.
Azura: I’m sorry, Hinoka. I cannot return to Hoshido with you.
Hinoka: What?! Why would you say that? Y-you’re not really siding with the Nohrians, are you? Say it isn’t so…
Azura: I am. I will never forget the kindness your family showed me… I bear you no ill will, but even so, I have chosen to fight alongside Corrin.
Hinoka: So you’re to betray us too? …So be it.

%Camilla,Hinoka
Camilla: Heh heh, I finally found you...
Hinoka: You! Aren't you Princess Camilla of Nohr?
Camilla: I am. And you are Princess Hinoka of Hoshido. Corrin's "real" sister.
Hinoka: Yes, I am. All I've wanted for as long as I can remember is to bring him/her home. I still feel the same way. The last thing I want is to fight him/her. Corrin belongs with us! Can't you see that?!
Camilla: Oh my, how wrong you are. My sweet brother/sister will never return to you. He/She knows who his/her true family is, and it's not the one he/she left in Hoshido. He/She chose Nohr. More specifically, he/she chose me over you. Deal with it.
Hinoka: You! Y-you'll pay for that!
Camilla: Now prepare to beg, Princess. My dear Corrin only needs one big sister! That's why you're the one person I simply can't lose to!

@End 
Camilla: We won! It's over, Hoshidans. Retreat while you still can. I'd hate to destroy such brave soldiers, but I will if I must. 
Hinoka: Argh... w-we're out of options here... Everyone! Retreat, now! *sigh* Leave the dead behind, at least for now. There's no time to lose. 
Rinkah: That won't be necessary. We suffered no casualties. Not one. Many of our soldiers are injured, but they'll recover, and they can all still walk.
Hinoka: What?! How is that possible? I don't understand... Corrin! What is the meaning of this? Was this your doing?
Corrin: Run, Hinoka. Why are you hesitating? GO!
Hinoka: ... Fine I'll retreat, for now. Before that devil you call a sister stabs me in the back. ... good-bye, my brother/sister.

Camilla: Aww, my little Corrin. You really are too kind for your own good. Telling us all not to kill any Hoshidans before we even entered the building... You certainly made things difficult on us, but it was a fun challenge at least! Are you certain we shouldn't chase after them? It's not too late to kill them all... 
Corrin: No, Camilla. Let them go. We're blazing a new path for Nohr, one of mercy. There will be no pointless killing. That is the only way to end this war. OK, now that we've seized Notre Sagesse, all that's left is to find the Rainbow Sage. 

Kaze: Is that true, Lord/Lady Corrin? Do you really mean to bring peace to this world?
Corrin: Kaze?! What are you doing here? Why didn't you retreat with Hinoka and the others?
Kaze: I asked my question first. You said your path is one of peace, and that you seek to end the war. Is that true? if so, why did you choose to return to Nohr?
Corrin: Yes, I spoke the truth. At first I returned because I couldn't bring myself to betray my Nohrian siblings. But I soon realized that being a Nohrian prince/princess granted me certain opportunities. As a Nohrian, I can change things from the inside, stop the death and destruction. Without me, the Nohrian army would keep slaughtering the Hoshidan army... and the Hoshidans would keep retaliating. A never-ending cycle of hate and death. Since I chose to side with Nohr, it's my responsibility to end that cycle.
Kaze: ...
Corrin: I'm sorry, Kaze. But if your intention is to take me to Hoshido, you're out of luck. I won't let anything come between me and my goal of bringing peace to this world.
Kaze: I see. I have only to look in your eyes to witness how determined you are. Yours is an admirable goal, milord/milady. As such, I request permission to join your ranks.
Corrin: Huh?!
Kaze: Please forgive me for my past brashness. I should not have judged you so quickly. When you left Hoshido, I thought you had betrayed us. Like the others, I was certain that you meant to destroy Hoshido. I see now that I was horribly mistaken. Your reasons for siding with Nohr aren't just sound. They're actually quite pure. You have inspired me to hope for a peace I had long ago dismissed. Please allow me to lend my strength to your noble cause.
Corrin: Thank you for your kind words, Kaze. I would be happy to have you, but... You know the others will call you a traitor, right? Can you live with that?
Kaze: Words do not harm me, so long as I act with honor. I do not regret my decision.
Corrin: That's all I needed to hear. From now on, you're one of us. Welcome to the team, Kaze!
Kaze: Thank you, Lord/Lady Corrin. I shall serve you to the best of my ability.
Corrin: I don't doubt it. Now to find the Rainbow Sage. He should be somewhere in this building...
Kaze: Of course. Allow me to show you the way to his quarters.

Rainbow Sage: Hmmmm... 
Corrin: Um... pardon me, but are you the Rainbow Sage.
Rainbow Sage: I am the one you seek. You fought a trying battle to get here, young warrior with a heavy heart. 
Corrin: I did... I heard you have the power to make me stronger than I am. Please, oh wise sage, would you consider blessing me with your strength? 
Rainbow Sage: Hoo hoo hoo... Oh, you're a funny little dragon, aren't you? You have already gone through my trial, and so have already received my power. Does not your body feel lighter and stronger than when it first arrived? 
Corrin: I was so distracted I hadn't really... but you're right. I suppose it does!
Rainbow Sage: All who seek to find me must struggle through various trials to do so. It is amid that struggle that I witness and unlock their true power and potential. You did well, hero of darkness. 
Corrin: Thank you so much! I can't wait to show Xander my new power. 
Rainbow Sage: There is one matter we must discuss, brave Corrin. You have in your possession the legendary Yato blade, do you not?
Corrin: How do you know that? And wait... How do you know my name?
Rainbow Sage: Hoo hoo hoo, how humorous. I know all that there is to know! I know all that you have done and all that you are still to do. But I won't spoil the ending. That's for you to discover. However, the fates will allow me to divulge one little tidbit to set you on your path... As wielder of the divine blade, it is you who will solve the mystery of the Seal of Flames. The Seal is the key to bringing an end to the hatred and war that soil these lands. Solve the mystery, and you will bring peace to this world at long last. So it shall pass.
Corrin: The Seal of Flames... Where do I start? 
Rainbow Sage: Your Yato is the key... that is your first clue. Unfortunately, it seems the Nohrian hero who would aid you is not present. That will change in the not-too-distant future. When the time comes, this will help you lead the way. Lift up your blade, Corrin. 
Corrin: As you wish, Sage...
Rainbow Sage:  I, who forged the sacred blade... I, who committed the great sin... I, who wove the divine colors... I call on you now, Seal of Flames! 
Corrin: What... just happened?
Rainbow Sage: Nothing, yet. I merely awakened a seed that was already sown. When you enlist the help of another hero of Nohr, your blade will evolve. A blade fierce enough to guide us through the night... the Grim Yato.
Corrin: The Grim Yato... Once I've unlocked it, will I be able to find the Seal?
Rainbow Sage: The Grim Yato is a part of the Seal of Flames, though it is not it's final form. Perhaps one day you will meet your fate head-on and unlock the Seal's power. Perhaps... That is all I can say. Your path is an arduous one, but I believe in you. You'd better get going, young hero. The King is awaiting your return. 

Corrin: What a success! We secured the territory and even found the Rainbow Sage. Let's hurry back to the castle and tell Father we completed his mission.
Iago: Heh heh, not so fast, Lord/Lady Corrin.
Corrin: Iago?! What are you doing here?
Iago: I am still at the castle, foolish prince/princess. What you see is merely an illusion. King Garon has tasked me with informing you of his latest command.
Corrin: Another command? Already?
Iago: Aren't you lucky? If it were up to me, you would be dead and buried. King Garon doesn't wish for our enemies to obtain the Rainbow Sage's strength. So it is now your illustrious privilege to carry out his will by killing the sage.
Corrin: Are you insane?! I can't do that! I won't! The Rainbow Sage is a force for good. I will not repay his kindness with death. And the Hoshidan high prince, Ryoma, has already received his power. It's too late to prevent it. To kill the Sage now would not only be cruel but pointless.
Iago: I'm afraid an order is an order, Lord/Lady Corrin. As you well know by now, to disobey a direct order from the King is treason. Not even your meddling siblings could save you if you disobey once more. If you value your life, I would rethink your refusal.
Corrin: You dastard! I won't do it! I won't...
Rainbow Sage: Worry not, young hero. All things must pass.
Iago: What the?!
Corrin: Sage! You heard all that?
Rainbow Sage: Hoo hoo, you never cease to amuse. As I said, I know all there is to know. I am grateful that you chose to protect me, even at the risk of your own life. But now it is my turn to protect you. My time has finally come. I am ready.
Corrin: Wh-what are you saying? You can't mean...
Rainbow Sage: I am older than you can fathom. My time to pass into the next world is long overdue. When higher beings like myself stay in this realm too long, we eventually go insane. My power is too great to allow that, as I might even destroy this world I so love. I've known for some time now I must die soon. But not until I gave you my strength. Now that my work is done, so too is my time here.
Corrin: Please, no! You don't have to do this! I'll find a way to convince Father that...
Rainbow Sage: Thank you for your kindness, Corrin. That kindness may just save this world. Never forget that life is the most precious gift of all. Protect it. Cherish it. And weather your path is bathed in light... or in the gentle veil of darkness... Allow yourself to be happy. This is such a lovely world... Don't take it for granted. Do this, and your soul shall give hope to the future, brave prince/princess... Do this, and it will shine brightly with all the colors... of the... ... ... 
Corrin: Sage? SAGE!!! Please don't do this... Don't die... Gods, no... NOOO!!!
Iago: Hmph. You and your loopholes. Well, I suppose dead is dead. You technically fulfilled King Garon’s order. You sneaky little rat…
Corrin: I'm so sorry, Sage... I should have found a way to stop this. I chose this path to bring peace to the world. To stop the senseless death... Yet here I am again, powerless to save an innocent life. I failed you, Rainbow Sage... Forgive me...@Intro 
Corrin: The road ahead seems heavily forested. Is that where we're going?
Azura: Yes. It is dense, but there's a path that leads to the Bottomless Canyon. This whole area is the domain of Mokushu, another independent nation. If we encounter any of its citizens, they should be friendly, but... We would be wise to remember how Nohr compromised Izumo before we arrived.
Kaze: I wouldn't worry about Nohr strong-arming Mokushu, milady. The locals are well known for their proficiency in the martial arts. Many great ninja have sharpened their craft here. No, it's likely that Nohr's strategists would have tried to avoid this area. Even if it meant taking the long route.
Azura: And we haven't heard about any battles in the area—another good sign.
Corrin: Very well. Let's proceed.
Zola: Boo! Betcha didn't expect to see me here!
Corrin: Zola! You've been following us! You're massively outnumbered, so you can't possibly be in search of a fight.
Hinoka: Relax, Corrin. He probably just came back to offer me a chance to cut him. Wasn't that thoughtful of him.
Zola: No! Please! I'm defeated. I did not show up here to challenge all of you by myself. I came here to surrender...and to seek amnesty.
Corrin: And why should we trust you?
Zola: Well, to be honest...you shouldn't. I tried to kill you. But you saw what Lord Leo was about to do to me. I can no longer return to Nohr. I am exiled. Without the backing of an army, I am of little danger to you. But maybe I could be of some assistance...
Corrin: Hmm...
Azura: Corrin! Surely you can't be considering his proposal?
Hinoka: Can I cut him yet?
Zola: Eeeek! Stay away from me, please!
Corrin: I think we should bring him with us.
Zola: Wait, really?
Azura: Yes, really, Corrin?
Corrin: Yes. As he said, he's of little danger to us by himself. And he may prove to have some value. Lastly, it is not the Hoshidan way to turn one's back on the helpless.
Azura: You have a kind heart, Corrin. Perhaps too kind.
Zola: Oh, thank you, Prince/Princess Corrin! I can't believe I let King Garon convince me that you deserved to die. What you've done here today shows your true character—that of a brave leader!
Corrin: You're overreacting, Zola. And please remember... If any of us catch you doing ANYTHING suspicious... I WILL allow Hinoka to cut you down.
Hinoka: I'll always be standing by, knife at the ready, Corrin. So don't even think about doing anything stupid. You got that?
Zola: Yes, milady!  

Corrin: Ahh. This forest air is refreshing. And I have to say. I'm enjoying this path a fair bit more than the Eternal Stairway... Are we getting anywhere close to the Bottomless Canyon, Sakura?
Sakura: Yes, I believe so. *sigh*
Corrin: What's the matter? Are you getting tired?
Sakura: No... I was just th-thinking about Ryoma and Takumi... Sometimes I forget that they're missing, and then when I remember... It's like a wound is freshly opened.
Corrin: I know the feeling. But please try to stay positive. Worrying about it isn't going to do anything but drive you crazy.
Sakura: You're right. I'll do my best!
Corrin: That's the spirit. Whoa... Watch out!
Sakura: Ahhh!

Corrin: A shuriken?! Get down, everyone!
Kaze: This belongs to a Mokushu ninja.
Azura: I sense the presence of many... I believe we're surrounded, Corrin.
Corrin: Blast! So much for Nohr staying away from Mokushu.
Azura: I'm not sure we're dealing with Nohr...
Zola: I think she's right. I know that Nohr wants no fight with the kingdom of Mokushu.
Hinoka: How convenient. Come here, runt.
Zola: Awwk! Please remove that blade from my throat!
Hinoka: Not until you tell us what's going on.
Zola: Gah! Your guess is as good as mine! Perhaps Nohr has made an alliance with Mokushu.
Kotaro: The deformed one is correct. Our kingdom has made an arrangement with Nohr.
Corrin: Who are you?
Kotaro: I am Kotaro, daimyo of Mokushu.
Corrin: And what is your quarrel with us, Daimyo Kotaro? We merely seek passage through your territory.
Azura: Yes. Our understanding was that Mokushu is an independent nation. Yet you are now beholden to Nohr?
Kotaro: Beholden? Pah! Mokushu is beholden to no nation. Our interests simply happen to line up with those of Nohr for the time being. Once Hoshido is defeated, King Garon will grant us considerable new territory. We've long been waiting for the chance to expand. And this war is the perfect opportunity.
Corrin: So you're a war profiteer. How noble.
Kaze: Gods. The famous daimyo of Mokushu turns out to be a scheming politician. I don't even have words for how disappointing that is.
Kotaro: And even if you did, it wouldn't make a difference. Grow up, foolish Hoshidans. Only the ambitious prosper in this world.
Azura: It was careless of us not to think of this possibility.
Kotaro: Indeed! Now that I have you all in one place, I can end the war today. I look forward to building a castle on the smoking ruins where Hoshido once stood.
Corrin: Go on, keep talking. I'll savor making you eat those words.

@Battle 
Corrin: Great, what now? Wait...is that who I think it is?
Takumi: Ungh...
Corrin: Takumi! Over here!
Sakura: Brother!
Hinoka: I'm so happy to see you again, Brother!

Hinoka: Gah! What's wrong with you? That arrow almost hit me!
Corrin: Takumi, what are you doing?!
Takumi: Kill...
Corrin: Um...
Takumi: I should have been the chosen one...
Hinoka: This is creepy...
Sakura: *sob* Takumi... What h-happened to you?
Takumi: I am ignored...alone...forgotten. But I am more powerful than they can imagine!
Corrin: What are you saying? Snap out of it, Takumi!
Takumi: Ughhhh... I will not stand in the shadows any longer... They will all see me for the first time! I will make them pay for what they've done. I will make them...I will make them... DIE!
Corrin: Takumi?!
Takumi: Unnnhhh...
Azura: Look at the color of his eyes... Could it be? There's only one way to find out. I'll have to sing to him...

@Recruit-Talk 
%Azura,Takumi
Takumi: No one...notices me. No one...cares. Die. Die. Die. Die. Die. Die.
Azura: Takumi...listen to me.
Takumi: You... You are...
Azura: It doesn't matter. I'm someone who can help. You're being controlled by a dark force. This is not who you are! You don't have to give in. You can survive this! Listen carefully...
Takumi: Ugh... Gyaaaaah!
Azura: Takumi, can you hear me now?
Takumi: Ohhhh... Azura? Is that you?
Azura: Yes, it's me! Oh, thank goodness.
Takumi: Uh...where am I?
Azura: Unfortunately, we're right in the middle of a battle. I don't really have time to explain. Are you in any condition to defend yourself?
Takumi: I...I think so. I feel OK.
Azura: Very well. Just remember.. You're strong and intelligent. There's a certain something about you. I believe in you, Takumi.
Takumi: Um, OK...
Azura: That's the Takumi I remember. Now, come on! You'll need to focus to make it through this battle.
Takumi: Wait! Azura! Ugh, I'm still a bit woozy. So many questions... I guess I'll just have to stay alive to get them answered.

@Recruit-Battle 
Takumi: Die. Die. Die. Die. Die. Die. Die...

Kotaro: Thank you SO much for walking right into my domain. Perhaps I'll name one of the latrines in my new castle in your honor.

%Saizo,Kotaro
Saizo: Kotaro of Mokushu...you will now answer to me.
Kotaro: I answer to no one. Who are you to suggest otherwise?
Saizo: I am Saizo the Fifth, servant to the Hoshidan royal family.
Kotaro: Saizo...that's familiar. I believe I've murdered others of your pitiful lineage.
Saizo: You—! How dare you! My father was an honorable man.
Kotaro: Honorable? Maybe. Weak? Definitely. That balding old fool had the audacity to lecture ME! So naturally...I put an end to his life.
Saizo: I knew you were the one responsible for his death. Coward!
Kotaro: Bwahaha! Isn't this a stroke of luck? To fell both father and son with the same blade... How poetic!
Saizo: I'm about to rewrite your poem...
Kotaro: Please. If you're anything like your father, you won't land a single blow!
Saizo: How's that? Did I land a single blow?
Kotaro: Ugh... *cough* *cough* *gurgle*
Saizo: Fitting. Father, you are avenged.

@End 
Takumi: Unhh... I am invisible...
Corrin: Takumi! TAKUMI! He's still not responsive. I don't want to attack him, but... What should we do?
Takumi: Ughhh...
Azura: I have an idea, Corrin. But I'll need to get close to him.
Corrin: All right. Just be careful. Who knows what he's capable of in this state.
Takumi: What... are you...
Azura: It doesn't matter. I'm someone who can help. Listen carefully!
Takumi: Ugh... Gyaaaaah!
Azura: Takumi! Can you hear me?
Takumi: Ugh... Oh, man... What's going on? Why is everyone looking at me?
Corrin: Takumi! You're back!

Sakura: Brother! I'm so glad you're back to normal. We were all so w-worried about you.
Hinoka: Yeah. Don't ever do that again, OK?
Takumi: Whoa, guys! Stop crying. You're making me all embarrassed.
Sakura: I don't care. We didn't know if we'd ever see you again. And then when you showed up all weird like that...
Hinoka: Yeah. We didn't know if you'd ever be the same Takumi we know and love again.
Takumi: Well, it's definitely me guys. Thank you for your concern. And I'm sorry I made you all worried.
Hinata: Phew! I'm glad Lord Takumi is safe and sound after all. It wasn't looking good for us for a while there...

Oboro: Lord Takumi! Now that you're back, we'll never let anything happen to you again!

Corrin: It's good to have you back, Takumi. But as much as I would like to savor this moment. Ryoma is still missing. Can you tell us anything about what happened to you two?
Takumi: Yeah. It was insane. We ran into Nohrian troops just outside Izumo and began fighting. Ryoma and I were separated in the early stages of combat, before we had to retreat. We were outnumbered...and pushed to the brink of the Bottomless Canyon.
Corrin: So we still have no idea where he is...
Takumi: No, I'm afraid not. Something triggered a massive landslide, and I was caught up in it. That's how I fell into the canyon.
Corrin: You actually fell into the Bottomless Canyon? How are you still alive?
Hinoka: I've never heard of anyone returning from there before.
Takumi: I...I have no idea. All I remember is falling. There was a period of darkness, and then I woke up here.
Hinoka: Well, I'm just glad to have you back. It's a miracle you survived a fall like that!
Takumi: So, um, can anyone tell me how I ended up here? Or what, exactly, I was doing before I woke up just no?
Azura: It's best you don't worry about it for now. Just get some rest.
Takumi: No, I need to know. My Fujin Yumi was in my hand when I came to. And some of you have wounds in your backs...
Hinoka: Well...
Takumi: Tell me! What did I do?
Corrin: Takumi...you must have been under some sort of spell. You stumbled out of the woods and started attacking our party. Please, try not to worry about it. We know it wasn't really you.
Takumi: Oh, what have I done? A prince attacking his own men? How can I show my face in Hoshido again?
Corrin: Please! Someone...or something...was controlling you. We know you were not in your right mind.
Takumi: That's small comfort right now, I'm afraid.
Corrin: Well, I'm sorry you feel that way, but all that matters now is that we're all here. Will you join us in the search for Ryoma? Perhaps something along the way will jog your memory. Can we count on you?
Takumi: Yes. If you can forgive me for all the hurtful things I've said and done.
Corrin: Of course. We must move forward—not dwell on the past.
Takumi: Thank you, Corrin. I also need to thank you...Sister.
Azura: Oh! You called me— I mean...you're quite welcome, Takumi. Ahem... *cough* *cough*
Corrin: Is everything OK, Azura? You don't look well.
Azura: I'm fine. I think I'm just a bit tired. Please, don't worry about me. I'll be better in no time.
Corrin: If you say so.

Kaze: Excuse me, everyone. I have more good news. Our forces rescued Kagero from an underground prison nearby. Welcome back, Kagero.
Kagero: Hello, everyone. Good day, milady.
Hinoka: Welcome back! Are you all right? Do you know what happened to Ryoma?
Kagero: Yes. But I'm afraid—
Hinoka: No! Ryoma could not have fallen to the Nohr army. It isn't possible!
Sakura: No! Brother... *sob* *sob*
Takumi: I can't believe he's gone...
Hinoka: We will build a monument to his glory when we return home...
Kagero: Please, if you would allow me to continue. Lord Ryoma is still alive, as far as I know.
Hinoka: But? You said you were afraid of something.
Kagero: I was going to say I'm afraid I don't know exactly where he is. After being separated from Lord Takumi, Lord Ryoma met with a Hoshidan scout. The scout informed him of a new civil strife in Nohr. Ryoma departed at once in the direction of Cheve.
Hinoka: Cheve...so he's on his way to Nohr right now!
Kagero: I can only assume so. I was given the order to return to Hoshido and report this information... But I was careless while traveling through Mokushu and ended up being caught. I must apologize to everyone for such shameful conduct.
Hinoka: It's OK. We're just glad to see you alive. And knowing that Ryoma is still out there is valuable information to have.
Azura: Yes. But we should depart quickly if we hope to catch up to him. Corrin, this may mean returning all the way to Nohr. Are you ready to do that?
Corrin: Yes, of course.
Kaze: If we travel by sea, it will be faster. We should head to the nearest port town. And even though Kotaro is defeated we should take care. There will surely be other ninja who share his ambition, lying in wait...
Kagero: Yes, that sounds wise. I've also dispatched another ally back to Hoshido. He will warn everyone to avoid this area for the time being. I expect he'll reach Hoshido and inform Yukimura within half a day or so. Lord/Lady Corrin, would you permit me to join you? I feel I must make up for my previous shortcomings.
Corrin: You owe nothing, but we would be more than happy to have you. Everyone—the sooner we find Ryoma, the sooner we can end this war.  @Intro 
Rinkah: Ah, you’re awake. Sorry about that bump on your head.
Corrin: It’s you! From the Flame Tribe, right? Where are we?
Rinkah: Yes, I am Rinkah. This is a Flame Tribe village within Hoshido’s territory. I’m going to hand you over to the Hoshidan authorities.
Corrin: I see. I suppose they’ll want to hear an explanation for the unprovoked attack. And then they’ll probably execute me.
Rinkah: Heh. I don’t think so.
Corrin: Gods…they’re here already, aren’t they?
Rinkah: Yes. It’s time to go.

Corrin: We meet again. Kaze, right?
Kaze: Yes. I’m glad we found you, Prince/Princess Corrin.

Corrin: You are? Wait, am I missing something?
Kaze: Please come with me. All will be explained.
Corrin: Very well.

Ryoma: Welcome back, Kaze. Good work.
Kaze: Thank you, Lord Ryoma.
Corrin: Did…did you just say Lord Ryoma?
Rinkah: Yes, this is the high prince of Hoshido, Lord Ryoma.
Corrin: I understand.
Ryoma:  Hmm…
Corrin: What are you waiting for? If you’re going to execute me, please get on with it.

Mikoto: I cannot believe it is really you…
Corrin: I’m sorry, do we know each other?
Mikoto: Oh, I’ve missed you so much! Come here, Corrin, my sweet child!

Corrin: Your sweet child?! What are you talking about? That’s not possible…

Mikoto: Oh, my poor Corrin. It’s a sad story. When you were very young, you were abducted by forces from Nohr. I am your mother, Mikoto. All this time, I didn’t know if I’d ever see you again!
Corrin: But King Garon is my father! None of what you’re saying makes sense.
Ryoma: It must be quite a shock, but I assure you that she speaks the truth. I am your elder brother, Ryoma.
Corrin: No, no, no… Xander is my older brother! Leo, Elise, and Camilla are my siblings…
Ryoma: Are those the Nohrian royals? They’re not your real family. I still remember the day you were taken. In those days, there was tension between Hoshido and Nohr, but no full-blown war. Not until King Garon lured King Sumeragi-our father-to Cheve under false pretenses. He said it was for a peace conference. Ha! His real plan was to murder our father in cold blood. And to make matters even worse…he kidnapped you.
Corrin: No. That’s just not possible…
Ryoma: You really don’t remember any of this? Not even a single memory?
Corrin: No. Honestly, I have only the vaguest memories from my early childhood…

Corrin: These are times when I can sense something beneath the surface… A blurry image. Like a stone at the bottom of a lake, shimmering and ethereal. But that’s it. Nothing of substance.
Ryoma: Well, I can’t imagine the Nohrian royals would share much of the past with you. I know this is a lot to take in.

Hoshidan: Lord Ryoma! I have an urgent message. We’re under attack from the north!
Ryoma: No! Hinoka and Sakura are in that area right now!
Hoshidan: Yes, milord. I’ve been told that they’re working to help evacuate the villagers.
Ryoma: Very well. We’ll need to provide support. I’ll leave immediately. Corrin, will you come with me? I want you to see the truth with your own eyes.

Sakura: Sorry I’m slowing us down. Of all the times to sprain an ankle…
Hinoka: Don’t worried about it, Sis. We’ll be OK. These stupid beasts don’t stand a chance against me.
Sakura: I hope you’re right…

@Battle 
Ryoma: Take a look around, Corrin. This is a treacherous region for battle. It’s important to scout ahead and look for any troublesome areas.

Rinkah: Hm? That village… Not everyone has evacuated yet. We should warn them to stay out of harm’s way!

Kaze: I hope it doesn’t come to this, but I’ve brought some Vulnerary for you. Please use it as necessary, Lord/Lady Corrin.

@Visit 
Old Man: Oh, thank you, kind warrior! Everyone in our village is so grateful. Please, take this. Good luck!

@Battle 
Rinkah: Did you see that? The entire hill just disintegrated! Is that the power of a Dragon Vein? I had no idea…
Kaze: To harness the ancient dragon powers is truly a magnificent gift. Yet I wonder if even the royals who wield that power can fully control it… Still, strategically using Dragon Veins could be the key to this rescue.

Ryoma: When you are in command, you can lead your allies in battle. Or, you can allow them to engage the enemy as they see fit. Just be careful to never let your guard down!

Corrin: I think I see someone over there. It might be the princesses. We should get close and try to speak to one of them.

@Battle-Talk 
%Corrin,Hinoka
Corrin: Hey, are you all right? We’re here to help.
Hinoka: Yeah, we’re fine. Who are you? I thought I knew most of my brother’s troops. Anyway, I appreciate the help, but it’s really not necessary. It takes more than a few dozen 800-pound monsters to bring me down!
Corrin: Well, I’m glad you’re feeling confident. Just know that we’ve got your back.
Hinoka: Hey, wait a second!
Corrin: Hmm?
Hinoka: I didn’t mean to be dismissive. Thank you for coming all the way out here. I owe you one…so take this. You can use it in a pinch to heal your wounds. Now really, don’t worry about me. I’m at my best in situations like this!
Corrin: Thank you. I’ll use this wisely.
Hinoka: Hey, you never did tell me your name.
Corrin: Oh, sorry. I’m Corrin. Nice to meet you.
Hinoka: Corrin? Corrin?! This can’t be a coincidence!

%Corrin,Sakura
Corrin: Hey! Are you OK? We’re here to help.
Sakura: Oh! Th-thank you so much. Yes, we’re OK…for n-now.
Corrin: Excellent. I think we have things under control at the moment. But please stay back for the time bring. We’ll take care of the rest of the monsters.
Sakura: Yes, of c-course. Oh. I didn’t even get a chance to ask his/her name…

@Battle
Ryoma: Hold strong, Sisters! I’m coming for you!

Hinoka: Do your worst, monsters. I promise I can be meaner than you!

Sakura: I’m not scared of these things…as long as Hinoka is close by!

@Character-Falls
Hinoka: Ugh! I lost to that... THING.
Sakura: Hinoka! You've taken too much damage. Please, you must retreat!
Hinoka: Never! Urk... Well, maybe just this once...

Corrin: I wasn't prepared for this! I'm sorry, I can't go on...
Ryoma: Corrin, no! How could I let this happen...

Sakura: No! *sob*
Hinoka: Sakura, get out of here! You can't possibly go on!
Sakura: You're right. I'm sorry, Hinoka...

@End 
Sakura: Thank you so much for coming to our aid. Those monsters would have caused more damage if you hadn’t come. I have to ask, though… Who are you?
Corrin: Oh, my name is-

Hinoka: His/Her name is Corrin.
Corrin: Er, yes. Nice to meet you properly.
Sakura: Hinoka? Are you OK?

Hinoka: Finally…after all these years… I…I’ve missed you so much.

Hinoka: S-sorry…
Corrin: Oh! Um…
Ryoma: Hinoka was so attached to you when you were little, Corrin. When you were taken from us, she cried for months. One day she stopped crying and pick up the naginata. And I will say…if you ever find yourself facing business end of her weapon… …you will soon be filled with major regrets about your life decisions. She vowed to bring you back to us someday… And now here you are.

Hinoka: I’m sorry, Corrin. I’m not usually this emotional. But I’m just so happy to have you back. Take that, Nohrian scumbags! We win, you lose!
Sakura: Wait…is this really Corrin?
Ryoma: Yes. I know it’s big news. I’ll fill you in on the whole story later. For now we should return to the castle before Nohr deploys more monsters. Everyone, let’s head home!
Corrin: What are those things, anyway?
Ryoma: They’re known as the Faceless. Creature with no will of their own. Created by Nohrian mages.
Hinoka: I call ’em dead meat. But they’re the only thing Nohr can throw at us right now. Our mother, Queen Mikoto, put up a magical barrier around our kingdom. Regular enemy soldiers find themselves without the will to fight upon crossing it. So long as Mother is able to keep the barrier up, Nohr can’t invade Hoshido.
Ryoma: That’s why Nohr sends those…things. They have no souls-no will of their own.That’s why they are able to penetrate the barrier and terrorize our borders.
Corrin: But…the Nohrians wouldn’t send monsters to terrorize innocent people…
Hinoka: Of course they would. They’re pure evil. Sometimes the Faceless even turn on the mages who created them. But the Nohrians don’t care. They’re willing to sacrifice their own just to hurt others. I’ll never forgive them for that, or for stealing you away. They’ll pay for all the suffering they’ve caused!
Corrin: I can’t believe it…

Mikoto: Welcome back, Corrin! This is your old room.
Corrin: And what’s this?
Mikoto: Oh! That’s a picture you drew when you were a little boy/girl. This is your father, this is me, and that’s you. It’s so cute!
Corrin: *sigh*
Mikoto: We couldn’t bear to touch a thing in this room after you were taken. If we put your things away, it would have felt like giving up. You’ve grown so much. I can’t believe how handsome/beautiful you are!
Corrin: I’m afraid I still don’t remember anything.
Mikoto: Oh?
Corrin: I…I just don’t know how to respond to your stories. I do believe I could be your child… But everyone here simply feels like a stranger to me.
Mikoto: I understand, Corrin. Please don’t worry about it.
Corrin: I’m so sorry. Here you are, maybe my real mother, and I don’t feel anything…
Mikoto: Please. It makes sense. You spent your whole childhood in Nohr. I’m sure you were quite sheltered. You will need time to think all of this through and search your soul. But I hope that someday we can be a family again.
Corrin: …
Mikoto: For now, please make yourself comfortable. Explore the castle, or stroll the grounds outside. You’ll be safe here.

Corrin: I can’t stop thinking about Xander. Or about Camilla, Leo, and Elise…

Corrin: Hm? What a beautiful song…

@Cutscene
Azura: Yet the waters ever change, flowing like time. The path is yours to climb.

@End
Azura: ?
Corrin: Er, hello. I’m sorry to bother you. I just got lost in your singing. There is something about that song captivated me…
Azura: You must be Prince/Princess Corrin.
Corrin: Yes. And you are?
Azura: I’m Azura. A former princess of Nohr.
Corrin: Former? I don’t understand. If that were true, surely I would have heard of you. I grew up with the Nohrian royal family…
Azura: I’m afraid I’ve been here a long time. After you were taken by the Nohrians, the Hoshidan forces retaliated. They tried desperately to get you back, but they failed again and again. However, I wasn’t as heavily guarded. Hoshidan ninja easily kidnapped me. I suppose we’ve both been hostages for most of our lives…
Corrin: Gods…I’m so sorry.
Azura: No, it’s OK. I may technically be a hostage, but I’ve lived a happy life. The people of Hoshido have accepted me as one of their own. Even Queen Mikoto herself treats me as if I were her daughter.
Corrin: Does she? Hmm…
Azura: Did something happen between you and Queen Mikoto?
Corrin: No. I just don’t know what to do. She seems perfectly lovely, but I don’t feel any connection to her. But she loves me. And so do all my blood siblings-who I’ve just met.
Azura: I understand. If I were to return to Nohr, I suspect I’d feel the same way.
Corrin: Do you think you could start over there? Live a new life among strangers?
Azura: No. Given a choice, I would prefer to stay here in Hoshido. Queen Mikoto is a peace-loving ruler. King Garon is not.
Corrin: …
Azura: So, Corrin…what are you going to do?
Corrin: I don’t know. For now, I’m just going to spend some time thinking.@Intro 
Elise: All right...the throne room is just upstairs from here.
Corrin: Understood. Wait. Someone's coming down.
Elise: Oh!

Iago: Well, well...look who's still alive! You're just full of surprises, Corrin.
Corrin: I'm through playing games, Iago. Let's just do this.
Iago: Not so fast! Lady Elise, I'm here for you! Why don't you come over here, and I'll protect you.
Elise: Why would I ever listen to YOU! You tried to make Xander and Leo fight Corrin! And you've tried to kill him/her, like, five times already!
Corrin: Save your breath, Elise. This guy never listens to reason. He doesn't care about right or wrong. He's just looking out for himself. I think it's time we taught him a lesson he'll never forget.
Iago: Ooh, such big words. Hoshidan prince/princess! But you are right... I don't care about what's right or wrong. That's why I always get my way. I'm willing to do what's necessary. Like THIS!

Azura: AHHH!

Corrin: Takumi! What are you doing?
Takumi: Die die die die die...
Azura: Urk...you're...hurting me! Why...
Corrin: What's wrong with you? Stop hurting her!
Iago: *sigh* I just knew this would be too much for your feeble mind to understand... And I need you to comprehend the totality of your defeat. Otherwise I can't properly enjoy myself, you see? Very well, let me explain. Prince Takumi has been on our side all along! Thanks to him, I've known your whereabouts every step of the way.
Corrin: You're lying. How could that be possible? Takumi, tell me this is a joke!
Iago: Bwahaha! How does it feel? Being stabbed in the back again and again? And to think of all that time you spent looking for poor little Takumi...
Corrin: There's no way Takumi would betray us of his own free will. He must still be possessed!
Iago: Oh, please. Of course he's possessed. But the spell wouldn't work without a kernel of dissatisfaction in his soul. He's always felt like an afterthought in the royal family. He has quite the inferiority complex. He desperately wants to prove himself. That's how he survived. His hatred kept him going so he could deceive you all! Now it's his turn to shine. Mwahahaha! He's deliciously evil, is he not? Better hurry up and kill him... before he kills Azura!
Corrin: There's got to be a better way... Takumi, listen! What happened in the Bottomless Canyon? What made you this way?
Takumi: Nnngh...
Azura: I can fix this... Just need to sing my song...

Azura: Aieeee!
Corrin: Azura!
Iago: Oh, I'm so glad I'm getting to see this all in person for once. It's quite a show! I wonder how it will end...
Corrin: Takumi...you've got to listen to me.
Iago: Are you really just going to let him kill Azura like this? What are you waiting for? Kill Takumi! And then see how Ryoma reacts. Oh ho ho!
Corrin: I believe in you, Takumi. I know the real you is still in there.
Takumi: Nnngh...Brother/Sister...
Iago: What?!
Azura: Now's my chance... You are the ocean's gray waves... ♪

Iago: No! Shut up!
Sakura: Haaah!

Iago: Gwaahhh...
Sakura: I w-won't let you interrupt her!
Corrin: Sakura! Thank you!
Iago: You will pay for that bit of sass, young lady. I didn't want to get my hands dirty, but I suppose it can't be avoided.
Sakura: Eeeee!
Corrin: Leave her out of this, Iago!

Takumi: *cough* *cough* It's OK, everyone... I'm myself again. Thank you, Azura.
Corrin: Yes! I knew you'd snap out of it!
Takumi: Thank you for believing in me, Corrin.
Corrin: Of course.
Iago: What just happened?
Takumi: I just woke up for good. That's what happened. You were able to exploit some of my deepest fears and flaws, but that's over. My brothers and sisters need me, and I won't let them down. I'm a proud prince of Hoshido, and from now on I will live up to the title!
Iago: How disappointing.
Corrin: This is it for you, Iago. You're on the wrong side of history. Peace is coming, and you can't stand in its way any longer. WE WILL GRIND YOU TO DUST!

@Boss 
Iago: You poor fool. Doing Corrin's dirty work for him/her...

Iago: Save me...King Garon...

%Corrin,Iago
Iago: You're like a rather pesky cockroach, you know that? Just when I think I've got you under my foot, you scamper away.
Corrin: Sure. Just keep talking. It's what you do best. I'm through talking.
Iago: Well, then! I'll save the rest of my clever analogies for another time... And kill you right now. HAAH!

%Takumi,Iago
Takumi: Yes! I was hoping I'd get a chance to kill you myself. This is for everything you've put me through!
Iago: *yawn* You know I chose you because you were the weakest, right? You should never have come out of that spell—now you're going to suffer!
Takumi: Wrong! Now that my head is clear, my aim is truer than ever. I'm going to turn your face into my own personal bull's-eye.

@End 
Corrin: You're finished, Iago.
Iago: Awk! No...I don't want to die! Please...listen! I was under a spell the whole time. This is all King Garon's fault! I would never have done all those things to you.
Corrin: Sure.
Iago: Won't somebody save me? King Garon is the evil behind all of this. I've been used! Have mercy on me!
???: Pathetic. I've never seen someone face their own death with less dignity. For that, and for all of your cruelty, you're a disgrace to Nohr!
Corrin: Leo!

Leo: Any last words, Iago?
Iago: Lord Leo! I throw myself upon your mercy. You're here to save me, right?
Leo: Weren't you listening just now? I am not your ally, you monster. I won't allow you to sully our kingdom a moment longer!
Iago: B-but, milord...
Leo: Just stop talking. I'll put you out of your misery.
Iago: Please, I beg you!
Leo: Die!

Iago: Gyah!

Leo: Good riddance.
Corrin: Thank you, Leo. Have you come to join us? We're about to confront King Garon.
Leo: Not exactly. I have had a moment of enlightenment, and I believe you are on the side of justice. However, I'm still a Nohrian prince, and King Garon is still my father. I won't stop you, but I cannot assist you further.
Corrin: I understand. Even though I now know we're not related, I still think of you as my brother.
Leo: Thank you, Corrin.
Corrin: Also, I meant to tell you earlier, but... No, wait. Never mind.
Leo: What? What is it? You can't tease me like that!
Corrin: *sigh* Your collar is inside out again.
Leo: DAMN IT. Why didn't you tell me before?
Corrin: Sorry, I didn't want to interrupt your moment with Iago. You really took charge there!
Leo: Well...thank you. I guess.
Elise: Don't worry, Leo! You still looked super cool!

Leo: Elise! What are you doing here?
Elise: I'm here to try and talk Xander and Father into listening to Corrin. I can't stand watching our family self-destruct anymore!
Leo: I see. Well, I'm not sure Xander or Father are in the mood for chatting... You should go wait this out in that secret passage Camilla thinks I don't know about.
Elise: You know about that?! Ugh, of course you do. Nothing gets past you. But it doesn't matter. I have to do this! I'm the only one who has a chance of making them drop their guard and listen. I can't just sit by and do nothing while everyone I love tries to kill each other! I couldn't live with myself...
Leo: But, Elise...
Elise: Sorry, my mind's made up.
Leo: Well, I suppose I can't make you change your mind. So...do as you wish. But please be careful.
Elise: Yay! Thank you, Leo! Your blessing means a lot to me.
Corrin: Thank you, Leo.
Leo: You two...so reckless. Since you can't be stopped, I must at least warn you one last time... Xander is stronger than you can fathom. Much stronger than either of us. And Father is perhaps stronger still.
Corrin: I appreciate the warning. But I am willing to give my life for this cause. And I am confident enough to believe I won't have to.
Leo: You have grown considerably, Corrin.
Corrin: Thank you, Leo. We'll be on our way now. I hope we can meet again.
Elise: See you soon, Leo!
Leo: Yes... Good-bye.

Leo: I honestly have no idea how this is all going to turn out... Wait a moment. Was that Odin giggling? And did I hear Niles cough? Guys, why don't you stop hiding and come out here.
Niles: So sorry, Lord Leo. We simply didn't wish to disturb you unless it became necessary.
Odin: Yes, but then this insolvent creature tickled my fancy with a mirth-filled quip! Even my dark aura could not resist a chuckle.
Leo: What have I said about referring to your dark aura all the time?
Odin: But, milord...to even think of you being imprisoned within eternal darkness... Your soul yearning to break free.... Oh, the lamentations I would express...
Leo: Huh?
Niles: He's trying to say that he was worried about you, milord. You went off to the Bottomless Canyon with that strange crystal all alone... I was worried about you, too. That's why we're here.
Leo: Yes, well...thank you, I suppose.
Odin: Tell us, what fantastic truths did the dark crystal reveal to you?
Leo: Well...
Niles: Ooh. That good, huh?
Leo: No, it's just... Father... He's no longer... Ugh. Let's just say, big changes are on the horizon, for all of us. There's going to be a major battle, and anything could happen.
Niles: Understood, milord.
Odin: Yes. I have prophesied this from the very beginning...
Leo: Heh. You're hopeless, Odin. ... *sigh* Good luck, Corrin...@Intro 
Ryoma: Welcome to the Cheve Underground. This is where the resistance meets. We should be safe here for the time being.
Corrin: Thank you, Ryoma. I think I speak for everyone when I say this... We're so glad to have you back in command.
Sakura: We all missed you so much!
Takumi: I knew you'd be fine. But I'm still glad to have you back.
Hinoka: Now that we're all reunited, nothing can stop us!
Ryoma: Thank you, everyone. It's great to see you all again. And I must apologize for making you all worry so much. To think of all you've overcome to track me down... I've never been prouder to be your older brother.
Corrin: So, what's next? Now that we're all back together, it seems like anything is possible.
Scarlet: I like the sound of that. So you all must be Ryoma's siblings, right?
Ryoma: Ah, yes. It seems introductions are in order.

Ryoma: These are my younger brothers, Corrin and Takumi. And my sisters, Hinoka, Azura, and Sakura.

Ryoma: This is my younger brother, Takumi. And my sisters, Hinoka, Azura, Corrin, and Sakura.
Ryoma: Everyone, this is Scarlet.
Scarlet: Wait...those names are awfully familiar. Are you named after the Hoshidan royal family?
Ryoma: Er. You could say that. We ARE the Hoshidan royal family.
Scarlet: Urk! Please forgive me, Your Highness! I had no idea you were THE Ryoma!
Ryoma: Please, Scarlet. You may simply call me Lord Ryoma. I apologize for not revealing my true identity earlier, but it was necessary. I wanted to get a true feel for your group without my royalty muddying the waters.
Scarlet: You needn't have worried. We have a common enemy. And many of us have strong ties to Hoshido. My own grandfather was one of the king's servants many years ago.
Ryoma: Is that so?
Scarlet: Yes! I've always wanted to be a knight because of him. I fact, if it wouldn't be out of place...I'd really like to join your party. You've seen what I can do in battle. What do you say?
Ryoma: I say we'd be lucky to have you. Welcome aboard.
Scarlet: Yes! Thank you so much, Lord Ryoma.
Corrin: Ryoma, can you tell us more about the resistance?
Ryoma: Yes. The group here in Cheve is one of the most well organized. In the early stages of battle, I learned of this group and decided to investigate. I made my way to this region and joined the resistance under false pretenses. Of course, you must realize that there are underground anti-Hoshido groups as well. That's why it's important for us to have a presence in regions controlled by Nohr. In case the conflict spreads.
Scarlet: I can't believe I didn't recognize him. Oh well. I'm just glad we're on the same side. All of us in the Cheve resistance simply wish to be free of Nohr's oppressive rule.
Corrin: Yes. It's important to remember that we're not just fighting for Hoshido. Garon's mania for conquest must not be allowed to claim one nation more!

Corrin: What was that? I thought this was a safe house.
Scarlet: It is! Nobody outside the resistance knows about this place. Let's see what's going on.

Scarlet: What's going on? What was that blast?
Resistance: Milady, we're surrounded by Nohrian troops. Our men have engaged the enemy, but we're severely outnumbered.
Scarlet: No! How did they know that we were here?
Azura: We may still have a traitor among us...
Corrin: What are you suggesting? You saw what happened to Zola.
Azura: I don't know, Corrin. How else could this have happened?
Corrin: I refuse to believe...
Ryoma: No matter. We must evacuate immediately. There's a secret path nearby. Come, everyone!
Scarlet: But what then? That path leads right to Nohr's doorstep.
Ryoma: Indeed. And that is exactly where I intend to go.
Scarlet: Are you serious? We're not ready for that kind of mission.
Ryoma: Running from the enemy won't bring this war to an end. We need to confront King Garon directly. And I believe that a swift counterattack would be the last thing he expects now. What do you think, Corrin?
Corrin: I think you're right. Moving forward quickly with a small force could actually work.
Scarlet: I don't know...
Corrin: Scarlet, if you're not on board with this plan, please don't feel obligated to join. I understand it must be hard to leave your troops here to fend for themselves.
Scarlet: No...I'll go with you. The resistance here is strong. We may be outnumbered, but we'll win the day. I can see the conviction in your eyes. Let's do this!
Ryoma: Excellent. Now that we're in agreement, we should get moving. The sooner we make our move, the greater our advantage!

Corrin: So this path leads all the way to Nohr? Are you sure we'll be safe?
Scarlet: We should be. Then again, I thought that our safe house was actually SAFE. We built the path for this exact purpose, but I had no idea we'd use it this soon...
Corrin: I'm sorry, Scarlet. Our arrival has certainly set things in motion.
Scarlet: It's all right. Maybe it's just the spark we needed to finally make a move. So please, wipe that sad look of your face. We're going to kick some butt!

Corrin: Whoa! Thanks, I guess I needed that. If we're going to invade Nohr all by ourselves, I'd better be confident.

Ryoma: We're close, everyone. Time to get serious.

Corrin: Well, that's a formidable wall. And there's no shortage of troops... Everyone, please listen up. Once we cross the border, there's no turning back. If anyone wants to retreat, now's your chance. You will not be judged.
Hinoka: I'll follow you to the end of the world, Corrin. You have my support.
Takumi: And leave you here to take on these jerks all by yourself? Forget about it. I'll bend my bow to your will, Corrin!
Sakura: I wouldn't think of staying behind after all you've done for us.
Ryoma: I'm pleased to see you taking on the role of a leader, Corrin. You're becoming worthy of the sword that has chosen you. Naturally, I will not be turning back.
Azura: You know this already, but you have my support as well, Corrin.
Corrin: Thank you, everyone. Your support means the world to me. Now, let's head into Nohr and show King Garon we mean business!

@Boss 
Benny: Nothing personal. I'll make it quick...

Benny: I did my best. That's all I can say...

Charlotte: Ugh, I have better things to do. Why'd you have to invade today?

Charlotte: You're such a pain...

Daniela: How sad for you to make it all the way here only to be butchered by me!

@End 
Corrin: We made it! Did that really just happen?
Ryoma: Yes, Corrin. We won this battle. But remember, we're in Nohrian territory now. We've got a long way to go.
Corrin: Can't I just be happy for a minute?
Ryoma: Of course. But time is of the essence. Garon will hear about this soon. It won't be long before more Nohrian troops are on our trail.
Takumi: He's right. We've got to find someplace to rest. It'll be dark soon. There's cover in the forest nearby. What do you think, Ryoma?
Ryoma: I think that's a good idea. Let's move toward the forest. I've been studying maps of the area in preparation for this scenario. Follow me!

Corrin: Ugh...I can't get any sleep. If only I could shut off my brain for a few hours... What's that?

Azura: Ugh...
Corrin: Ah, it's Azura. I wonder what she's doing up at this hour. I hope everything's OK. It almost seemed like she was going to faint back in Nestra. Well, there's only one way to find out.

Corrin: Where'd she go? I can hear her voice... It sounds like she's singing that song again.

Azura: You are the ocean's gray waves... ♪
Corrin: Ah, there she is. It seems a bit cold for a swim...

Azura: Oh, Corrin!
Corrin: Azura...what are you doing out here? Couldn't sleep?
Azura: Were you following me?
Corrin: I suppose I was. I just heard your voice, and I wanted to ask you something.
Azura: Yes? What is it?
Corrin: Well, it's about the song you were singing just now.
Azura: I see.
Corrin: What can you tell me about it? It seems to have a different effect on everyone. For example, when you sang to Takumi, it seemed to break the spell he was under. But when you sang to the Nohrian soldiers, it was almost like they were in a trance. And Izana knew some of the words—even though he'd never heard it sung before! How is that possible?
Azura: I'm sorry, but I'd rather not talk about it.
Corrin: Really? Azura, it's me. You can tell me anything.
Azura: You should try and get some sleep. We're going to be up early tomorrow.
Corrin: Please don't change the subject. You won't talk about the song, and I feel as though I hardly know anything about you. Doesn't that make you lonely? You know that we're all friends—we're here for you!
Azura: Corrin...it's not that simple... Ugh...
Corrin: Azura! What's wrong? How can I help?
Azura: Agghhh...
Corrin: No! Azura!

Azura: Don't look...at me...please.
Corrin: What's happening to you?
Azura: *huff *huff* *huff* Phew... I'm OK now. I'm sorry to have worried you.
Corrin: Please, don't apologize. I'll go get someone. Can Sakura help?
Azura: I'm afraid not. What you've seen is the result of a curse. Like you, I carry special blood in my veins. But this comes at a price... I can sing for fun, or even to help someone in battle, and I'll be OK. But when I sing THAT song, in combination with my pendant... I'm able to generate a special kind of power.
Corrin: The power to exorcise demons?
Azura: Something like that. But in exchange, every time I use the power, I suffer. It doesn't always happen right away. But it always happens.
Corrin: Why didn't you tell us before? You've been suffering needlessly this whole time!
Azura: No. The suffering is temporary, and I always recover.
Corrin: But...
Azura: But nothing. Each time I have sung that song, it was required. And it will be required again in the near future. We will eventually need the song's power to defeat King Garon.
Corrin: I see.
Azura: Please don't worry. Although it is excruciating, the pain always subsides. If my song can help us end the war, I'll sing it as many times as necessary.
Corrin: OK. But you must promise that you won't ever put yourself in danger. I don't know how you can willingly inflict such suffering upon yourself...
Azura: I promise. If only everyone were as kindhearted as you, we'd have no war at all, Corrin.
Corrin: Thank you, Azura.
Azura: I'm sorry for no telling you about this before, but... I didn't want you to worry. Remember, you mustn't hesitate to have me use the song if it becomes necessary.@Intro 
Garon: Hmmm, so clever little Corrin has returned home. And he/she has carried out my order in an alarmingly competent fashion, no less. Heh heh heh... well done, child. Mwahahahaha. HA HA HA HA! Well, I'll just have to give my dear son/daughter a truly agonizing mission now, won't I?

Garon: ... You may enter.
Iago: King Garon, Corrin has returned. It seems he/she managed to quell the rebellion without sacrificing a single life. He/She has requested an audience with you, my liege. What should I tell him/her?
Garon: Tell him/her I received the message and will be there momentarily.
Iago: Consider it done, your majesty.
Garon: ...

Corrin: I have returned, Father.
Garon: And gloriously so, I might add. Iago told me of your impressive feat. Stopping a rebellion without taking a single life is no small accomplishment. You've done well, Corrin. I am... proud of you. As promised, I now welcome you back into the royal family. Well done, my son/daughter.
Corrin: Thank you, Father! I can't tell you how much this means to me.
Xander: I told you all would be well in the end. Good job, Corrin.
Corrin: Thanks, Xander!
Iago: Ehem, there is one small problem, King Garon. My sources tell me Corrin did not carry out his/her mission alone.
Corrin: ...
Xander: Iago! That was unnecessarily cruel, even for you.
Garon: Is this true, Corrin. Did you or did you not face the Ice Tribe alone?
Corrin: ... It is true. I did not face them alone. I set out on my own, as ordered, but along the way I ran into trouble. Felicia/Jakob, Silas and Elise came to help me. I couldn't have done it without them. I'm sorry for defying you in that regard, Father. I beg your forgiveness.
Garon: So you defined my holy orders and involved not only retainers but also your sister?
Iago: This behavior simply cannot be tolerated. Right, King Garon? He/she betrayed the wishes of the divine dragon, Anankos. Such sacrilege demands a swift and severe punishment. If you ask me, we should put an end to Corrin once and for all.
Elise: Stop it, Iago! That's never gonna happen! I won't let it! Corrin never asked us to follow him/her - we did that on our own! It's not his/her fault! So... s-so if the punishment is death, you'll have to kill me too.
Corrin: Elise! Don't say that, dear sister. I'm not worth dying for.
Xander: Quiet, both of you. Father, if you must punish someone, punish me. It was I who told the others to tag along and help Corrin with his/her mission. If death is the price for this indiscretion, it is I, and I alone, who will pay it.
Garon: Hmmm...
Xander: Father, kill me or kill no one. That is all there is to it.
Garon: Enough. I have no intention of harming any of my beloved children. Though it was not exactly as I requested, he/she did accomplish his/her mission. By the grace of Anankos, I shall let this pass. He/She is, after all, still my son/daughter.
Iago: King Garon! You can't mean that!
Corrin: Thank you, Father! And you, Xander. Thank you for looking out for me, even at the risk of your own life.
Xander: Think nothing of it, little prince/princess. Such is the duty of an older brother.
Garon: I must admit, my child, I never thought you would pull off such a grand feat. Given your ability for combat, I shall waste no time in assigning you a new mission.
Corrin: A new mission? So soon?
Garon: Skills like yours need to be put to good use. I'd like you to head for Notre Sagesse. I need you to capture that territory and bring it under Nohrian rule.
Corrin: Notre Sagesse, eh? As you wish, Father.
Garon: I have heard that the place is even now teaming with Hoshidan soldiers. The Hoshidans are taking steps to topple Nohr and all we hold dear. Such bad seeds must not be allowed to take root. Head there immediately and eradicate all Hoshidan soldiers you find along the way.
Corrin: Y-you want me to fight against the Hoshidan army?!
Garon: That's not a problem, is it? Or, after all that, are you reluctant to raise a sword against the kingdom of your birth?
Corrin: N-no problem at all. I am a Nohrian, through and through. I will carry out your mission without fail, Father.
Garon: Good. Do not let me down, son/daughter. I'm counting on you.
Corrin: I won't fail you, Father.

Corrin: Well, I'm off on another daring mission, ha ha. So for now, this is good-bye.
Xander: Take care, Corrin. Even when we are apart, know we are still with you in spirit.
Camilla: Oh, it just doesn't seem fair! Going on a mission like that with such a small army. I'd go with you, but Father tasked us with a mission of our own. I really wish there was something we could do to help...
Corrin: Don't worry, Camilla. We'll be fine on our own. Right, Elise?
Elise: Yeah, that's right! We'll be just dandy! With me and my retainers at your side, we'll be back home in no time flat!
Leo: Elise is going too? Now I'm really worried. It was nice knowing you, Corrin.
Elise: HEY! That's not funny, Leo! Why would you say such a terrible thing?!
Corrin: Ha ha, he's just trying to get a rise out of you, Elise. You know I'm counting on you.
Elise: Thanks, Corrin! That's why you're my favorite! Because you aren't mean and stupid like Leo!
Leo: Even after spending time on the battlefield, you're somehow still the same spoiled brat. It's actually quite impressive. See, Elise? I'm not mean at all. I just said you impress me.
Elise: XANDER! MAKE LEO STOP TEASING ME!
Xander: *sigh* Corrin, listen well. The mysterious Rainbow Sage resides in Notre Sagesse. He grants divine power to those he deems worthy. Seek him, if you have the courage.
Corrin: Wow, is that so? I never knew such a being existed, much less in Notre Sagesse. But wait... if you know about him, does that mean YOU received divine power?!
Xander: It is true. Father and I each visited the sage and were each gifted with his power.
Corrin: Th-that's incredible.
Xander: It was a great honor. However, be aware that you will have to face severe trials first. If you decide to seek out the sage's trials, make sure you're prepared.
Corrin: I see. Thank you for your advice, Xander. I must become as strong as possible so that I can end this war once and for all. I have no choice but to seek out the sage and face whatever trials he has in store.
Xander: As expected. I look forward to seeing that new power when you return safely.
Corrin: Thank you, Xander. Well, I suppose I had better get going. Good-bye, everyone!
Leo: Best of luck, Corrin.
Camilla: Oh, my little Corrin... please be careful.

Corrin: That fort up ahead is enormous! Silas, are we supposed to pass through that?
Silas: We are. The road that leads to port is on the other side.
Corrin: Amazing. It kind of looks like a gigantic sleeping dragon.
Elise: Heehee, you're so keen, Corrin! That place is called Fort Dragonfall. It's some big 'ol dragon that died a long time ago.
Corrin: Fort Dragonfall... Tell me more, Elise.
Elise: Sure! Well, rumor has it this dragon was incredibly powerful. They say when it died, it's body eventually became this very fort!
Corrin: So this was a dragon from a long time ago... How very awe inspiring.
Silas: It is, isn't it? But the fort is now occupied by the Hoshidan army. We'll have to fight them off if we want to get through.
Corrin: Fate is cruel, isn't it? Well, I suppose we have no choice. We must get to Notre Sagesse so I can complete my mission and find the sage. I'll have to face the Hoshidan army eventually. It's now or never. I'm ready. I... I can do this.
Silas: Understood. In that case, let's prepare for battle before they spot us.

@Battle 
Nyx: What a nuisance. I might have known the Hoshidan army would be here. "There's a young girl in there! We've got to take her into custody!" Blah blah blah. Children barely out of the womb out to capture a grown woman. Pathetic. It makes me sick. This is why I usually choose to remain hidden from the ignorant masses. *sigh*
Azura: Once again, here I am. Dragged to some horrible place with no explanation. *sigh* Is it my destiny to forever be tossed aside, a stranger to all lands? Maybe the Nohrians will accept me. Or maybe this is where I die... Well, it is out of my control. If only I were a Hoshidan by birth. I knew if and when the war began, I would be among the first casualties. At least in the end... Hm? Is that... a Dragon Vein I sense? Ah, I do recall hearing that this fort was built from the remains of a dark dragon. Perhaps it can be used to attack those within the fort...

@Recruit-Talk 
%Corrin,Nyx
Corrin: Hey, miss! What are you doing out here?! You're definitely not a Hoshidan soldier. It's dangerous out here, young lady. Come on over to our side, and we'll protect you. Your family must be worried sick.
Nyx: I am no "young lady", and I neither desire nor require your paltry protection.
Corrin: R-really? Are you sure?
Nyx: Are you as deaf as you are dumb, boy/girl? Begone before I curse you into oblivion.
Corrin: Boy/Girl?! You're one to talk! You look about the same age as my little sister!
Nyx: Appearances can be deceiving, boy/girl. I'm afraid my situation is beyond your ability to comprehend. All I want is to live in solitude and to avoid the harsh gaze of the world around me... Is that really too much to ask?
Corrin: Live in solitude? Does that mean... you're all alone? Don't you have a family?
Nyx: My family left a very long time ago. They were... frightened of me and my abilities. They thought I was strange... Maybe I am. Who needs a family, anyway? I-I'm not sure why I told you all that... your eyes are very trustworthy and calming. So yes, intrusive stranger. I am all alone and shall remain so for all my days.
Corrin: No, I can't accept that. Why don't you join my team? We'll be your family from now on.
Nyx: What are you saying?! You know nothing about me or my dark past.
Corrin: That's true, but that doesn't matter. Only the present and the future. Besides, you can't evade the Hoshidan army all by yourself. You need us. Trust me, I know what it's like to feel lost and alone. That's no way to live. If my friends and family hadn't come to my aid, I wouldn't be alive right now. Everyone needs someone to lean on, stranger. Please join us.
Nyx: ...
Corrin: I really shouldn't leave such a helpless little lady alone, anyway, haha.
Nyx: I already told you I'm much older then I appear! Insolent fool. Or perhaps that was... what was it called... a "humorous joke" of some sort? Hmmm... Maybe you have a point. I suppose it would be advantageous to join you. For now. It has been a long while since I had any sort of companionship. It might be... nice. Well, fine. Since you insist, I shall join your ranks. Use my powers as you see fit.
Nyx: Oh, since we're on the same side now, I should let you in on a little secret. See that wall over there? It has a weak spot. It should break if you attack it. That knowledge should help us prevail over the Hoshidan Army.

@Boss 
Haitaka: Hey there, Nohrian pawn. Care for a little lesson in Hoshidan combat?

Haitaka: How...mortifying...

@End 
Azura: Hello, Corrin. It's nice to see you again.
Corrin: It's nice to see you too, Azura. But what are you doing in Nohr? Actually, never mind that part. Why were the Hoshidans fighting against you? I thought the people of Hoshido were your allies.
Azura: As did I. But when the war started, everything changed. After you, A prince/princess of Hoshido, sided with Nohr, the Hoshidans wished to banish me. The general consensus was that nobody with ties to the enemy could be trusted. Since I was taken from Nohr as a child, I bore the brunt of these wild suspicions.
Corrin: Azura... that's awful.
Azura: Ryoma and the others stood up for me. They tried their best to protect me. But one day a group of Hoshidan soldiers captured me and took me here. If you hadn't come along, I can't imagine what would have become of me. So thank you, Corrin. I owe you my life.
Corrin: Please don't thank me, Azura. It's my fault you were caught up in all this to begin with. It's not fair that you were torn from your home again on my account. I'm so sorry.
Azura: Please don't blame yourself. It's really not your fault. When a war starts, it's only natural to distrust the enemy. I always knew this would happen if Nohr and Hoshido ever went to war.
Corrin: I suppose so. But I'm still sorry for the part I played in your misfortune.
Azura: Think nothing of it. Actually... If it's not too much of a burden, I was hoping you would allow me to join you. Perhaps with our powers combined we can end this senseless war.
Corrin: Of course! Would be honored to have you fight by my side. You were a valued friend during my time in Hoshido. I'm happy to return the favor.
Azura: Thank you, Corrin. I'm so glad we crossed paths once more. After I was captured, I couldn't stop thinking about you. Not just you, but also your... Oh, never mind.
Corrin: Azura?
Elise: Corrin! I finally found you! We're all ready to go now.
Corrin: Thanks, Elise. We'll leave momentarily.
Elise: Um, brother/sister? Who is this pretty lady you're talking to?
Corrin: This is Azura. She'll be traveling with us from now on. She was once a Nohrian Princess, but she was stolen away many years ago.
Elise: A Nohrian princess? Really? Wow! Oh, wow! Why didn't you say so? Does that mean you're my big sister?!
Corrin: Ha ha! Of course it does! Isn't that right, Azura?
Azura: Well, um...
Corrin: Azura, is something wrong? You seem-
Elise: I have a sister named Azura! And she's SO PRETTY! It's nice to meet you, sis!
Azura: Yes, it's a p-pleasure to meet you as well. Thank you for the warm welcome, Elise.
Elise: Tee hee hee, no problem! Oh my goodness! I'm all shy now because of my new big sis! Come on already! Follow me! I wanna be the one to introduce you to everyone!
Azura: Huh? Oh, my...
Corrin: Elise, Azura is a bit shy. Please don't overwhelm her. ELISE?! Azura... what a mystery you are. It was almost like she was about to say she and Elise weren't really sisters. Perhaps it was just my imagination...@Intro 
Corrin: And just like that...we're back in Nohr. Amazing...
Takumi: Yeah. Did all that stuff with the Rainbow Sage actually happen? Or was it a dream?
Ryoma: It was no dream, Brother. The wisdom he imparted to us was real. I've never been more ready to take on King Garon!
Corrin: Let's not forget his other practical words of advice... Nohr's army passed through this area looking for us. So we should head in the opposite direction right away!
Ryoma: Right. Our best bet is to head northeast. There's a direct route that will take us very close to the royal castle. And remember...we may have evaded their forces for now... But we can't let our guard drop, even for a moment.
Corrin: Understood.

Corrin: That's quite a fort. Are we going through it, Ryoma?
Ryoma: Yes. It's the fastest way to get to the royal castle. And if we encounter resistance, the enclosed space will actually favor us. We can't be surrounded by a large army in there.
Corrin: Sounds like a solid strategy to me. I'm fascinated by the structure...I can't wait to see the inside.
Ryoma: As am I. The fort itself was built partially from the remains of a dragon!
Corrin: So that's why it's called Fort Dragonfall...
Ryoma: Yes. You look upon the carcass of an ancient, legendary beast. Its bones and carcass never seemed to deteriorate, even in death. Eventually, someone got the idea to incorporate them into this fort. In any case, it appears completely unguarded at the moment. Let's move forward.
Corrin: You heard him!

Corrin: You would think the Nohrian army would have left SOMEONE behind, right? Yet again, it seems they've just left a major facility abandoned...
Ryoma: You're right. I'd definitely rather have discovered a token resistance. This doesn't feel right...

Corrin: Whoa...what was that?
Ryoma: I don't know! It could have been an earthquake... We should evacuate for the time being.
Corrin: Good idea. Let's get to the exit, everyone!

Ryoma: What?! This isn't possible...
Corrin: What is it? Why aren't you moving?
Ryoma: The exit was right here...but now it's gone!
Corrin: Maybe it's an illusion. We've seen this kind of thing before...
???: Gahaha! This is no illusion, Corrin.
Corrin: Oh, no...not again...

Iago: Well, it sounds like I've lost the element of surprise. Boohoo.
Corrin: What are you doing, Iago? Again, we've got you outnumbered.
Iago: Oh ho ho! As if I'd grace this battle with my own physical presence. No, there's quite simply no need for me to get my hands dirty...
Corrin: Then what's your plan? Destroy the fort on top of us? You know it's made out of an indestructible dragon, right?
Iago: Well, of course! Why else do you think I chose this location to corner you? The dragon is even more indestructible than you can imagine...
Corrin: What are you talking about? Everyone, look at the floor! It's...it's covered in some kind of acid!
Iago: Bingo, Hoshidan prince/princess! Stomach acid, to be precise. You're about to be dinner for a dragon that hasn't eaten in a VERY long time!
Azura: He's...he's reviving the dragon somehow! Corrin...I don't think this is mere illusion!
Iago: Oh, it's real. Dip your toes in that acid, and you'll see just how real. Compliments of King Garon, of course. He's entrusted me with some rather fabulous new powers. Bwahaha!
Azura: I should have known you wouldn't be capable of something like this on your own.
Iago: Ooh...the blue-haired one is being MEAN to me! No matter. I can ignore a minor affront like that...since you're about to die and all.
Azura: ...
Corrin: Dragon or not, these walls can't hold us! Everyone, we just need to break through to the outside. Give me a hand! Hyaaah!

Corrin: I...I can't make a dent...
Iago: Oh, foolish Corrin... Did you really expect to be able to break through the rib cage of an elder dragon? There's only one way out of here, and I assure you, it isn't pleasant. Also, you'll die. In case that wasn't clear.
Corrin: What do we do?
Iago: Just sit back and enjoy being digested. It's all you can do. Actually, if you're bored, I suppose I can give you a few new friends to play with. Enjoy!

Faceless: GRRRRRAAAH!
Corrin: Faceless! Watch out, everyone!
Iago: I know—I'm too generous. These lovelies may end up sparing you a wonderfully delicious death by digestion. Either way, I'll be watching from a cozy chair at the palace. Bwahaha!

Corrin: Damn you, Iago! All right, our weapons and magic do nothing against these walls. What can we do?
Azura: Perhaps if I sing...
Corrin: I don't know, Azura. I don't want you to suffer...
Azura: But my song may be able to break the curse. It could be our only way out!
Corrin: But last time... I saw what happened...
Azura: Please, Corrin. Don't worry about that. Remember what I told you? I may suffer a little bit, but I'll always be fine. I can deal with a little pain if it means saving all of our lives!
Corrin: Very well...
Azura: There is just one thing. I'll need you and the others to defeat the Faceless before I begin. My song can be disrupted by the sounds they're making... I'm afraid it won't be powerful enough to break Iago's spell until they're gone.
Corrin: You can count on us. Just promise that you won't do any permanent damage to yourself, OK?
Azura: Yes. I'll be fine. You can trust me.
Corrin: All right. Everyone, forget trying to escape. Focus your attention on the Faceless! Let's take 'em down!

@End 
Corrin: Their leader is dead. Azura, now's your chance!
Azura: I'll do my best. Ahem...

Azura: You are the ocean's gray waves... ♪

Corrin: It's working...the walls are going back to normal. Let's work quickly, now. Hyaaah!

Corrin: Yes! We've done it. Everyone, get out while you can! Great work, Azura!

Corrin: Whew...that was close. Thank you, Azura. We couldn't have done it without you.
Azura: It was nothing. You guys did all the hard work.
Corrin: Oh, come on. Anyone who can swing a sword can take out some Faceless. But only you could have broken the spell that Iago cast. Now that we're safe...how are you feeling?
Azura: I...I'm fine. But let's not linger here too long. Iago said he was able to watch us somehow, so he knows we escaped. We should flee while he's busy apologizing to King Garon.
Corrin: You're right.
Azura: Ohhh...
Corrin: Hmm? Azura?
Azura: Yes?
Corrin: Are you sure you're feeling well? I thought I heard a whimper...
Azura: You're imagining things. I'm fine. Let's just get moving!
Corrin: Very well. Come on, everyone. Let's— Wait, Azura...what's happening?!

Azura: Please...don't come any closer...
Corrin: No! Azura! How can I help?
Azura: Ngh...ugh...
Corrin: It's...it's like you're fading away! This is even worse than last time! Azura, please tell me you'll be OK... AZURA!
Azura: Gah... *huff* *huff* I...I told you to leave me alone. I'll be fine...eventually.
Corrin: Azura. It's time you told me the truth about your song.

Azura: There's nothing more to tell. I...I'm feeling better already...
Corrin: A moment ago, it looked as though you were literally fading out of existence. Please, tell me the truth. If you truly care about me, be honest. Are you risking your life each time you sing the song?
Azura: ...
Corrin: Azura...
Azura: I, um... OK, here's the truth. The stronger an enemy is, the stronger my song must be in order to work. And the more powerful I sing—the more power I draw from my amulet...the more damage I sustain.
Corrin: And this damage... What's the worst that could happen?
Azura: It's possible that if I sang long enough, and with enough power... I could disintegrate completely.
Corrin: What?! But you told me back in Cyrkensia that there was no danger! You said that the song could cause you pain, but never kill you.
Azura: I'm so sorry, Corrin. I lied. I knew that telling you the truth would only make you worry. And for the good of us all—and the entire worlds—your focus can't be on me.
Corrin: I don't know. I don't think you should use your song anymore. I think we're just going to have to figure out a way to get by without it.
Azura: Corrin...I really appreciate your concern... Bu the reality is that we can't get by without my song. We can't defeat King Garon without it. The war will just rage on. I want to bring peace to this world. And if I have to sacrifice...so be it. I believe it's my purpose in life...
Corrin: But...
Azura: Please, don't worry. It doesn't mean that I'm destined to die. It only means that I'm willing to give my life for this cause. My dream is to live a long and happy life in a peaceful world. So, believe me...I don't want to go anywhere. I will be cautious.
Corrin: ...
Azura: Trust me, Corrin. I know I lied to you before, but... I won't ever disappear.
Corrin: I suppose I don't have a choice but to believe you. It's not like I can stop you from using your power anyway. But I expect you to honor your promise. Be mindful of your own well-being!
Azura: Yes. I promise, Corrin.@Intro 
Iago: Hmph. So the little snake has slithered out of our grasp once more... How did that ragtag team manage to make it through the Wind Tribe village?! One of their ranks should have lost a leg or at least an arm by now! Yet they are all in perfect health and high spirits. How utterly disappointing. King Garon must be furious. As his advisor, it is my duty to set things right. Luckily, their next stop is a fitting location for Corrin's fall from grace. The Eternal Stairway, rumored to lead straight to hell. Heh, it's too perfect! I wonder how many friends and loved ones our little prince/princess will lose there... Prepare to drown in your despair, Lord/Lady Corrin. Your king and I look forward to feasting upon your cries of agony!

Corrin: Ugh, so many stairs. Just a shot in the dark here, but is this the Eternal Stairway?
Azura: It is. Once we make it through here, we'll be near the Hoshidan castle. Soldiers will undoubtedly be awaiting our arrival, but this path is our only option. We'll have to break through their numbers by sheer force of will.
Corrin: And so we shall... Well, let's get on with it.

Felicia: M-milord/milady! We have an emergency!!
Corrin: Let me guess... Hoshidan soldiers?
Felicia: Um, well, yes! But... I mean, no? It's a little... Oh boy. So! The thing is... Um...
Jakob: Quiet, Felicia. Your stammering isn't helping anyone. Milord/Milady, we scouted ahead as ordered. We found a great many Hoshidan soldiers... All dead. The stairs up ahead are littered with their corpses.
Corrin: Gods... What happened?!
Felicia: W-we're not sure. They all appear to be healthy, strong warriors. And yet there's not a single survivor. It's...it's awful to behold.
Corrin: Perhaps Father sent another unit of Nohrian soldiers ahead of us...
Jakob: Highly unlikely, milord/milady. There's no way they could have passed us unnoticed. The only other route into Hoshido requires crossing the Bottomless Canyon... But they would have had to circle back, so we still would have gotten here first.
Camilla: A tragedy to be sure, but this works out quite nicely for us. Having our enemy taken care of before we even arrive is a huge boon. We should take advantage of this and get going before more troops arrive.
Leo: Agreed. These soldiers would have fallen anyway—better that it's not by our hands. We should be grateful that someone saved us the trouble of a tiring battle.
Corrin: I suppose. But...

Corrin: Huh?! What's that sound?
Faceless: GRRRAAARRRGHH!!
Corrin: Faceless! Here?!
Felicia: Oh no, oh no, oh no! There are too many of them, and they're headed right for us!
Jakob: Damn! So this is what befell those Hoshidan soldiers. We must not let the same thing happen to us, Felicia, follow me!

Faceless: RAAAAARGH!!
Felicia: Take that! AND THAT!
Faceless: Grrraaargh...

Corrin: It's no use! There are too many of them! Everyone, pull back! We can't win this battle!
Elise: We can't leave! They've got us surrounded!

Corrin: We're trapped...
Camilla: Oh, Father... Did you really have to send quite so many of these beasties?
Leo: Camilla, this is no joking matter!
Xander: Something's not right... Even Father wouldn't dispatch this many Faceless to one location. There's more at play here than we know.
Corrin: We'll figure it out later! For now, we need to concentrate on making it out alive. All we can do is carve through the Faceless and head for the top of the stairs. Everyone, watch each other's backs. I won't lose any of you! I WON'T!

@Battle 
Azura: Listen carefully, Corrin. We cannot possibly vanquish this many Faceless. There's no end in sight. We must try to get past them as quickly as possible.

@End 
Faceless: RAAARGH!
Corrin: Dammit! There really is no end in sight! Ugh!

Azura: Corrin!!
Corrin: I'm...I'm OK, Azura. But I'm not sure we'll be able to make it back up the stairs like this...
Azura: The Faceless seem to be concentrating their attacks on you, Corrin. I've never seen anything quite like it.
Xander: ... Corrin, go on ahead while we fend them off. That's an order.
Corrin: What?! No! I won't leave you!
Xander: You are our leader, Corrin. Think with your head, not your heart. No matter what happens to us, you mustn't fall here. All of Nohr is counting on you. Leave this mess to us and get out of here! We'll buy enough time to escape. I won't say it again, little prince/princess. as the crown prince of Nohr, my word is law. Go, NOW!
Corrin: But, Xander! I can't just leave you to... I...I can't let you...
Azura: Xander is right. If we're to end this war and bring peace to the world, we can't let you die here. You are the fated hero, Corrin. The Yato chose you for a reason. So please trust us. Get out of here while you still can.
Corrin: ...
Faceless: GRRRAAAAARRRGH!!
Azura: !!

Azura: Run, Corrin!!
Corrin: Azura... OK. I trust you, and I will do as you say. We WILL meet again. We must. Until then...good-bye.

Corrin: *pant...pant...pant...* I finally made it up the Eternal Stairway... Hoshido...is just ahead... I hope everyone is all right. Please gods, let them be all right...

Faceless: GRRRAAAAWR!!
Corrin: Huh?! More Faceless! How can this be?!

Corrin: Lilith! NO!!

Corrin: Why, Lilith? Why?! Why did you risk your life for me? This can't be happening... Hang in there, Lilith!

Lilith: ...
Corrin: Lilith... You're...
Lilith: *cough* It would seem the Astral Dragon Moro has taken pity on me. He's chosen to...let me return to my human form...for my last few—
Corrin: No, Lilith! Don't you dare say it! I...I forbid it! You aren't allowed to die, Lilith! Please! I need you to live...
Lilith: I'm sorry, milord/milady... For the first and last time...I can't follow your orders. But please...please don't cry for me. I'm so grateful I was able to protect you. It's only fitting. After all, you saved my life too, all those years ago. More than saving me, you gave me a place to call home...a family...someone to... I'll never forget all of our happy memories together. I die without regrets.
Corrin: Lilith, don't go... We've come so far! The war is nearly won! Don't make me say good-bye...
Lilith: Please, don't cry, milord/milady. Let me see you smile once more... I...I always adored you, Corrin. You've meant so much to me. Keep me in your heart, and I'll always... I'll always be with you... ... ...
Corrin: ...Lilith? LILITH!! NOOO!! Why, gods? WHY?! Why does someone as pure as Lilith have to die, that I might live? How can I go on...knowing she's dead because...*sob* because of me... *sob*

Faceless: GRRRAAAAWR!!
Corrin: More? Now?! But, I..
Faceless: GRRRAAAAARGH!!
Corrin: ...

Corrin: !!

Xander: It's all right, Corrin. We are at your side once more.
Corrin: Xander!! You're alive!
Azura: Yes, thanks to Xander's incomparable skill, we somehow made it out alive. We're sorry to have kept you waiting.
Corrin: I'm so happy to see you both. ... But...Lilith... She...
Azura: What's happened? Why is she... No! Please, no...
Corrin: Lilith... She saved me from the Faceless. Yet another life lost because of me... I want only to end this war...to stop all of the death and destruction...and yet... How...how could this... *sob...sob...*
Xander: ... Pull yourself together, Corrin. There is no time for tears.
Corrin: Xander?
Xander: Crying will not bring her back, nor is it what she would have wanted for you.
Corrin: ...
Xander: Listen, Corrin. I know this sounds harsh, but there's nothing you can do. Falling into misery and blaming yourself will not change anything. Lilith paid the ultimate price because she believes in you, as do we all. Do not tarnish the beauty of her sacrifice by letting it cloud your judgment. This is a war. If you let one death stop you from fighting with all your heart... We will not prevail. Do you really wish for her to have died in vain? Or for your sorrow to put those of us who remain in danger?
Corrin: No, but... It hurts so much...
Xander: The final showdown is still to come. This is just the beginning. There's a good chance that more of us will die in the battle that lie ahead. Elise, Leo, Camilla... If any of us die in the days ahead, you must keep fighting. You must stand tall, swallow your sorrow, and fight until the bitter end. If you waver, your troops will waver too. You must not allow that to happen. As he/she who wields the legendary Yato, that is your divine responsibility. So dry those tears, little prince/princess. There's work to be done.
Corrin: Xander...
Xander: Fight without fear or hesitation, and you will lead this world into the light.
Corrin: Without fear or hesitation... But how, Xander? How do you do it?
Xander: By searching your soul and finding strength in your resolve. That is how. No matter what happens, don't ever stop fighting. Isn't that what Lilith would want?
Corrin: Lilith... You're right, Xander. As always. Before she died, Lilith told me not to cry for her, to smile instead. I know it would upset her to see me like this. For her, I will carry on. Thank you, Brother. I feel much better now. I promise not to waver, no matter what.
Xander: There's that smile Lilith was so keen to see. I'm proud of you, little brother/sister. Now, back to the task at hand. We cannot afford to stall here forever.
Corrin: Right. ... Lilith... We're going to lay you to rest now, but then we must keep pressing forward. I'll see you on the other side, my friend. We'll ride horses and chat about the good times we've had since we last met. I'm sorry to leave you in this place, but the path to peace is finally within reach. From here, we're a stone's throw away from the Hoshidan castle. It won't be long now. Please keep watching over me, old friend. Just like you always did. I hope you know how much I loved you, and that I always will. ...Good-bye, Lilith.

Iago: So the little flying rat died, did she? I always did despise Lilith. What an annoying way to go, protecting her master from her rightful torment. If it weren't for her intervention, I could have made Corrin suffer even more! Ah well, at least that's one less shield for her to hide behind. Poor Corrin. I have only just begun digging your pit of despair. Soon you will find yourself lost in its infinite darkness for all eternity... Your time is nearly up, false prince/princess... Enjoy your last moments of joy...@Intro 
Garon: You have done well to return to us, Gunter. Welcome back.
Gunter: Thank you, King Garon.
Garon: To think you fell into the depths of the Bottomless Canyon... It must have been quite the ordeal. I am pleased to see you alive and well.
Hans: Heh heh, welcome back, Sir Gunter.
Gunter: ...
Garon: Enough of that. I would like to discuss our next endeavor. Soon Nohr and Hoshido will be engaged in an all-out war. Our army will set up base here in Cyrkensia and immediately send troops to Hoshido. If we catch them by surprise, we may be able to secure a win early on. Corrin, I'm putting you in charge of the Hoshidan infiltration.
Corrin: ...As you wish, Father.
Garon: Hmm...good boy/girl. Go by sea rather than taking the overland route. The Hoshidans will expect us to go by land and may be waiting to ambush. We shall outsmart them at every turn. In the meantime, I will return to Castle Krakenburg. I will monitor the situation from there and send more soldiers when the time is right. Iago, Hans, you two will come with me.
Hans: Certainly, my king.
Iago: Understood, King Garon.
Corrin: ...
Garon: I have high hopes for you, my child.
Corrin: I shall do my best to bring back good news, Father.
Iago: Before you depart, Lord/Lady Corrin, I must ask... Where exactly did you and Lady Azura disappear to last night?
Corrin: Hm?
Iago: Was I not clear? Then I shall repeat myself. I saw you follow Lady Azura into the night. Very suspicious, if you ask me. I shudder to even suggest it, but in times like these.. You weren't meeting with Hoshidan spies by any chance, were you?
Corrin: Nothing of the sort. She and I just went for a little stroll in the moonlight.
Iago: A stroll? You expect us to believe that?
Corrin: I do, as it is the truth. I was rattled after the attack on Father in Nestra. Azura suggested we walk through the forest to calm my nerves. While we were gone, we ran into a strange group of soldiers. Naturally, we eliminated them all.
Iago: What?! Y-you did?
Azura: Corrin...
Corrin: As sharp as you are, surely you noticed the new blood stains on my armor. There's your proof. I'm not sure who they were, but they threatened the royal family. That alone is reason enough to destroy every last one of them, is it not? After all, rebellions are like seeds. We must salt the earth before they can sprout. ...Have I acted out of line?
Iago: N-no, milord/milady. You are a role model to us all...
Corrin: Thank you, Iago. Let that be the last time I hear you question my loyalty. Father, if you'll please excuse me.
Garon: Go.

Corrin: Phew. That was close...
Azura: Corrin... May I ask why you lied to Iago just then?
Corrin: Well, it wasn't a complete lie... They may have been monsters, but we DID vanquish strange soldiers that attacked us. I merely left out the details of where the actual fight took place.
Azura: Ah, I see. So you said all that to gain King Garon's trust?
Corrin: Precisely. If we want our plan to succeed, it's imperative that Father trusts us. Winning the war won't matter if we can't convince him to sit on the throne.
Azura: That makes perfect sense. Sorry, I guess I was just caught off guard. Hearing you speak like him so casually... It was unsettling.
Corrin: Oh wow, I must be a better actor/actress than I thought. Sorry, but until this war is over, you'll have to get used to seeing me like that. I'll have to grow comfortable with that disguise, at least in front of Father. No matter how hard it is... Or how it tortures me.
Azura: I suppose so...

Corrin: Hey, Leo, isn't our boat due to arrive soon?
Leo: It is. Patience, Corrin. Ah, that reminds me. Iago gave me some extra funds for our war chest. He said he hoped it would prove useful.
Corrin: What?! He really gave us this much?
Leo: I was also surprised. I'm not sure what's gotten into him. Prying money from Iago is usually like trying to take a baby bird from its mother. But we'll take what we can get, I suppose.
Corrin: Too true. We should take this opportunity to stock up on supplies before we leave.
Leo: Excellent idea. Hm? Corrin! Behind you!
Corrin: Huh?!

Xander: Well done, Corrin! Your reflexes have vastly improved since last I surprise attacked you.
Corrin: Xander!!

Xander: It's been too long, little prince.

Xander: Hello, little princess.
Xander: I'm pleased to find you in good health and spirits. I heard the Rainbow Sage granted you new strength. Congratulations.
Corrin: Thanks, Xander! But sheesh, did you have to give me such a fright! We haven't seen each other in ages, yet the first thing you do is test my reflexes! I guess some people never change. By the way, what brings you here?

Xander: I finally completed the mission Father tasked me with. It was quite arduous. The first thing I did after reporting back was come after you. If you're to infiltrate Hoshido, I'm going with you. It's not negotiable.
Corrin: Xander... Thank you! Having you on my side is like having a thousand extra soldiers.
Xander: That is kind of you to say, if not a bit of an exaggeration.
Laslow: Lord Xander! It's great to see you again. We did our best to make you proud.
Peri: MILORD! I missed you so much! I made sure to keep Lord/Lady Corrin safe even though she didn't let me kill things!
Xander: Well done, both of you. I am grateful for your efforts to protect my brother/sister.
Laslow: Wow... Praise from the great Lord Xander. It's a little embarrassing!
Peri: Heehee, I'm an expert at making baddies suffer, so it was a piece of cake!
Leo: Now that Xander has joined us, the whole family is finally together again.
Camilla: That's a good point, Leo! It makes me so happy to be near all of my beloved siblings.
Elise: Even better, we have a new sister to welcome to the fold! Right, Azura?
Azura: Y-yes, that's right. Sorry, I don't wish to intrude on your reunion...
Xander: Azura? Can it be...our kidnapped sister?
Azura: You remember me?
Xander: Of course. Though not as much as I would have liked, we met a handful of times. I especially remember how horribly the other Nohrians treated you back then...
Corrin: They did? But why?
Xander: Azura is the child of Father's second wife, the late Queen Arete. When they married, many Nohrians were still distraught over my mother's death. Those who loved Queen Katerina were not happy about Queen Arete or her daughter. Camilla and I...and later Leo...were told not to associate with Azura because of this. I suppose Father wanted to protect the strength of his legacy or some nonsense. However, we always wished we could be close with her, as siblings should be. I can't tell you how happy I am to have you here with us Azura.
Azura: Xander... Thank you. Your words have touched me deeply. You are truly as kind as Corrin made you out to be.
Corrin: This is wonderful. Now we can all be the big, happy family we were meant to be!
Elise: YEAH!! Let's all go to Hoshido together! It will be an adventure!
Camilla: Elise, darling, we're not going to play. Make sure to behave yourself.
Leo: It's true. We should all mentally prepare ourselves for the battle looming ahead. Traipsing into enemy territory isn't going to be easy.
Xander: Worry not, Leo. No task is too great for the Nohrian royal siblings. Isn't that right, Corrin?
Corrin: Right, We'll find a way to win this war together. And I'll protect all of you... That's a promise.

Xander: The wind is at our backs, and there are no Hoshidan ships in sight. So far, so good.
Corrin: Yes, things are going quite smoothly. I hope it stays this way...
Nohrian: Lord Xander! Lord/Lady Corrin! Pirates are aboard the ship. They're raiding our war chest!
Xander: What?! Where did they come from?
Nohrian: I'm sorry, milord, but they must have snuck aboard before we set sail.
Xander: That's not possible. Unless...those are no ordinary pirates. To pull off such a stealthy move, they can be none other than Hoshidan ninja. Corrin, follow me.
Corrin: OK!

@Battle 
Xander: Hmm... To make it this far, they must be quite skilled and highly organized. Somebody is clearly leading the charge. If we take down the leader, the rest will fall.
Leo: Agreed, but I can't figure out who it is. They're all acting in unison.
Xander: Then perhaps... Their leader is not among them.
Leo: Hm? Ah! I see.. Nice thinking, Xander. After all, Hoshidan ninja are masters of disguise. Their leader must be masquerading as a Nohrian soldier, giving orders on the sly. That means we'll have to speak to each of our soldiers directly to smoke him out.
Xander: Let's move quickly. The longer this skirmish takes, the more we stand to lose.

Nohrian: I haven't seen anyone that looks like an enemy commander yet... Wha—?! Why are you pulling on my cheeks? OW OW OW! Please stop! You'll bruise my gorgeous face! Did you think I was an enemy in disguise? Never! I'm a Nohrian through and through! Are we done here? I feel a little abused.

Nohrian: Still no sign of the enemy commander. I'm afraid. Um, do I have something in my teeth? I suppose I did eat not too long ago... Huh?! You need to inspect my face? Erm. OK. V-very well. that was...strange. If you're finished, I shall return to my post!

Nohrian: No sign of our enemy yet. Am I wearing...a disguise? Not a chance! Test me all you want. My face and my Nohrian pride are both the real deal. If you're satisfied, please allow me to return to the task at hand.

Nohrian: I haven't seen anyone suspicious around here, but I'll keep looking. Huh? You wish to inspect my face? I'm sorry—I can't allow that. I'm not hiding anything, I just... Hey, stop that! Unhand me, you fiends! I guess I have no choice...

Shura: Bah! I must be getting sloppy if you were able to see through my disguise.
Xander: Wait...that's a Nohrian pirate! But he leads his men just like ninja... And how did a common pirate manage to sneak aboard? This doesn't add up. I'll get to the bottom of this later. For now, all that matters is stopping him!

Leo: Drat... We took too long trying to find their commander. They've stolen all the money Iago gave to us. How will I explain this to Father...

@Boss 
Shura: Now that you've found me, I have no choice but to defeat you all! Say good-bye to your men, your war chest, and this ship!

@End 
Xander: This battle is over. Surrender quietly, if you know what's good for you.
Shura: You're right... We lost. So now what? Well?! What are you going to do with me? For what it's worth, I'd much rather live than die.

Xander: Don't move a muscle. If you even breathe wrong, we shall end you. Stay in the cabin until my brother/sister here decides what to do with you.
Shura: Yeah, sure, whatever. Why not just execute me here and now? As though I could expect anything else from Nohrian royals.
Azura: You must know you deserve to be punished after what you did. You may be dressed as a Nohrian pirate but...I don't understand. Why would you board a ship for Hoshido when our country is at war with them? It doesn't make any sense. Can you explain?
Shura: ...
Leo: Hmph. Like a dirty thief needs a reason to do what he does best. He and his men likely just hopped aboard without thinking things through. Trying to reason with him is a waste of time, Azura.
Shura: Azura?! So you're the one...
Azura: You know who I am? How?
Shura: ...
Azura: No more games. Tell me what you know, or we shall kill you and be done with it. How do you know who I am?
Shura: ... I know...because... I was one of the people responsible for kidnapping you all those years ago.
Azura: Wh-what?!
Shura: I was commissioned by a Hoshidan strategist named Yukimura. I led him through the secret tunnel that runs beneath Castle Krakenburg.
Azura: But you're Nohrian yourself, aren't you? How could you do such a thing?
Shura: I am no Nohrian, but a ninja from Kohga, a land that exists only in memory now. Long ago, my clan proudly served the Hoshidan royalty. Those days were long past, but I still felt I should help avenge their loss. Besides, I figured if war broke out, I could use the chaos to take down Mokushu. Heh, I don't think Yukimura even realized he had enlisted a genuine ninja from Kohga.
Azura: I recall learning of the destruction of Kohga by the neighboring Mokushu. Rumor has it all who lived there were brutally killed... I'm surprised you were able to escape. Is that why you became a thief?
Shura: After Kohga fell, I was chased from home and separated from the other survivors. I...had no choice. I was a child at the time. It was either steal or die. I chose to steal. I eventually found myself in Nohr, where I carved out a life for myself as a pirate.
Azura: And now that war is upon us, you wish to return home to exact your revenge?
Shura: Yep, spot on.
Corrin: A former Hoshidan ninja, seeking revenge for his massacred people...
Shura: Please...you seem like a reasonable person. My name is Shura. Have mercy and spare my life, and I swear you won't regret it. I promise to serve and protect Lady Azura and to help you however I can. I'm not crazy about the Hoshidans, and I feel bad for helping kidnap your princess.
Corrin: So first you stole from us, but now you want to be our ally?
Shura: Yeah, sorry about that stealing business. Think of it as a showcase of my skills! Come on, whaddya say? Wouldn't hurt to have somebody like me around, right?!
Leo: Don't listen to him, Corrin. He could be lying through his teeth. For all we know, he's a Hoshidan spy. He could warn them we're coming. Hate to say it, but if we don't kill him now, it could endanger us all.
Camilla: I agree, sweet brother/sister. No matter his reasons, he tried to hurt us. There's no way to ensure he won't betray us to those nasty Hoshidans. I'd never stop worrying about you if that mongrel was on the loose!
Xander: Silence. That choice is not ours to make. What will you do, Corrin? As our leader, this is your call to make. Are we going to kill Shura or let him go?
Corrin: ...
^start 
Corrin: You're right... He's too dangerous to take with us. I take no pleasure in this decision, but I can't endanger my family. Your time is at an end, Shura. I'm sorry.
Shura: HUH?!
Leo: I know it's not easy, but you made the right decision.
Camilla: I'll feel much safer now. That's my good little Corrin!
Xander: Take heart, Corrin. You likely saved our lives this day. We all respect your decision to protect your loved ones at any cost. You've grown so much while I was away... Making rational choices for the greater good is what being a prince/princess is all about. I shall send a messenger to Father at once. He will be proud to learn that you brought one of Azura's kidnappers to justice. I know Father can be...difficult. But this is sure to earn you his favor.
Corrin: Thanks, Xander. I don't know what I would do without you.
Shura: I suppose I'm getting what I deserve. Just make it quick.
Corrin: ... The path I walk...is so cold. Please...let this war end soon.

Corrin: Leo, Camilla... I know you believe this man to be dangerous. And maybe he is. But in my heart, I feel that we can trust him. I will allow him to join our cause.
Shura: Y-you mean it?! Thank you, milord/milady!
Corrin: After all you've been through, Shura, I feel you're long overdue for some mercy. But know that if you place even one toe out of line, I will kill you myself. No one endangers my family. Got it?
Shura: Understood, milord/milady. I swear on my fallen people, I will never betray your kindness. Thank you, Lord/Lady Corrin. My life is yours now.
Leo: *sigh* Oh, Corrin. You're much too soft. Do recall that this is war.
Camilla: That's part of why we love you so much, dear Brother/Sister, but... I hope that kindness of yours never comes back to haunt you.
Xander: If that is your decision, then we shall respect it. I will make sure word of this never reaches Father. If he knew you intended to make an ally out of one of Azura's kidnappers... He would never trust you again.
Corrin: I know... Thank you, Xander. I don't know what I'd do without you.
Xander: You'll never have to find out, little prince/princess.
^end@Intro 
Azura: Finally. This is Cheve.
Sakura: Oh, I hope Ryoma is here...
Takumi: He's the toughest person I've ever met, but... I'm still worried.
Hinoka: Have faith, Takumi. Soon, the six of us will be reunited in the fight against Nohr!
Corrin: I agree. I'm confident we're on the right path.
Hinoka: Hmm, someone's coming this way.
Corrin: Who is it?
Hinoka: I can't tell yet. Look, over there, coming out of the shadows.
Corrin: It can't be Xander. He couldn't have tracked us down so quickly. Wait. That's not Xander. But it's definitely trouble...

Camilla: Ah. I see you miss your big sister.

Camilla: Heh. You're so...cute.

Camilla: Oh, my darling Corrin! I missed you so much...A little birdie told me that you were coming here, and I just couldn't resist.
Corrin: Camilla!
Hinoka: Back off, lady! That's my brother/sister you're smothering.
Corrin: No, Hinoka...it's OK.
Camilla: So, this is your new big sister, eh? Hmm...
Corrin: Camilla... I hope you know I could never replace you. But I couldn't stand for what King Garon represents, either. I had to make an impossible decision...
Camilla: Well, I'm happy for you. I'm happy to see you with your new siblings and your new friends. All I ever wanted was for you to be loved! So I'm glad that you are, even though we're not together any longer.
Corrin: Camilla...
Camilla: If only this joy could last, baby brother/sister... Oh, how I wish it didn't have to be this way.

Corrin: What are you doing?
Sakura: Look out, Corrin!
Takumi: Will someone hurry up and take her out?
Hinoka: I'm working on it!
Camilla: Oh, I'm so terribly jealous of you all. My dear Corrin chose you. He'll/She'll never be our brother/sister again. I'll never get to sing him/her to sleep. We've loved him/her for most of his/her life, but I guess that wasn't enough in the end... I'll make you pay for taking him/her from us! You'll all die, here and now!
Corrin: Camilla, no!

Hans: Is it time, milady?
Camilla: Yes, yes. Sorry for the delay.
Corrin: Hans?!
Camilla: I'm sorry, dearest Corrin. I wish all could be as it was, but I came here to fight. I won't allow you to meet with the Hoshidan prince! Hans and my lovely retainers will help me take good care of you!
Corrin: Camilla, please! No!

Camilla: I love you, Corrin. But if you survive long enough to make it all the way up here... I will do what I must and pierce your body with my blade. And then cradle you in my arms...just as I did when you were a child.
Corrin: Sister...

@Visit 
Old Woman: You must be from Hoshido, right? No need to hide it from me! People here are fed up with Nohr. We're on your side! Here, I don't have much, but maybe this will help. Good luck!

Girl: I heard that the resistance fighters have some mysterious new recruit. If you meet up with them, can you give the new guy this gift? We need all the help we can get!

Old Man: I spent some time in Hoshido as a younger man. What a wonderful place. Here, take this. It was a souvenir from my time there. This feels like fate!

Old Man: We may be under Nohrian rule, but not everyone here supports the king. Here, take this. Give it to someone who can make good use of it.

Boy: Are you working with the resistance fighters? Their leader is named Scarlet. Here, take this. And keep fighting the good fight!

Child: You're here to fight all those meanies from Nohr, right? Well, take this! I hope you give 'em hell!

@Boss 
Hans: I've always wanted a trophy... I think I'll keep your head in a jar.

Hans: Not again...

Selena: Ugh, you don't deserve to even LOOK at me. Get out of here!

Selena: Whatever. I wasn't even trying my best...

Beruka: My orders are to kill everyone from Hoshido. I will not fail.

Beruka: I've failed...for now.

Camilla: Oh, how I envy all the time you've spent with my dear Corrin...

Camilla: I still love you, Corrin...

%Corrin,Selena 
Selena: Well, if it isn't Corrin. Do you even remember who I am?
Corrin: Um...
Selena: Ugh, whatever! Like I care whether you remember me or not. You're a monster for making Lady Camilla so sad! Now it's up to me to make you pay for breaking her heart!
Corrin: Gah!

%Corrin,Beruka 
Beruka: It's not my place to question orders. But still...I don't understand.
Corrin: What do you mean?
Beruka: Lady Camilla can't stop talking about how much she loves you. And yet she's ordered me to kill you and all your friends.
Corrin: It's complicated.
Beruka: No matter. My mission is to kill, and I will not fail.

%Corrin,Camilla 
Camilla: Ah, Corrin. So we'll get to dance one last time after all.
Corrin: Camilla. Please clear the way. I don't want to fight you.
Camilla: Well, I don't want to fight you either! But your decision left me no choice.
Corrin: Can't you see what Garon is doing? I had no choice!
Camilla: Darling, I'm completely talked out. It's time for action. Get over here!

@End 
Camilla: Well, if someone had to defeat me...I'm glad it was you, Corrin. Are you going to kill me now? It has to be you... Don't let anyone else do it.
Corrin: No, Camilla. I can't just kill you in cold blood.
Camilla: Won't you even put a defeated enemy out of her misery? Aww, that's the Corrin I know. So sweet and innocent. But then...why did you betray us, Brother/Sister? Tell me! Why are you fighting for Hoshido?
Corrin: Camilla, you have to listen to me. King Garon was manipulating me. Possibly for as long as I've been alive!
Camilla: What?! How so?
Corrin: The sword he gave me before I left the castle was cursed. He knew I'd fall in with the Hoshidans and get close to the queen. That's when the sword exploded, killing her and dozens of innocent people.
Camilla: But...but what would have happened to you, Corrin?
Corrin: I probably should have been killed as well, if not for Queen Mikoto's sacrifice. Garon surely didn't care if I died, as long as his plan inflamed relations with Hoshido.
Camilla: How DARE he even THINK about harming a hair on your precious head! To think that Father has been up to such evil... I can't believe it. I'm sorry, Corrin. I had no idea.

Corrin: Hold! Who's there?
Leo: Stay right where you are, traitor. And please stop trying to brainwash my sister.
Corrin: Leo! I'm glad you're here. Camilla and I have something to-
Leo: Enough. Sorry for the delay, Sister. I'll take over from here.
Camilla: No, Leo! Listen to Corrin. He's/She's still the same person we knew.
Leo: Sister... Listen carefully. He's/She's fooling you. Do not allow him/her to do so!
Camilla: But...
Leo: Please stand back, Sister. Your wounds are serious. You should be resting.
Leo: I'll take it from here... I'm the only little brother you have left, after all.
Camilla: Leo...
Leo: Listen up, Corrin! I'm coming for you and all your friends. That's the only way to fix what you've broken. If you don't want to be my brother/sister, fine! I'll erase you from my heart forever!
Corrin: No!
Leo: Argh!
Corrin: What's happening?
???: ...
Leo: Who are you?
???: Wouldn't you like to know?
Hans: How dare you attack Lord Leo! Prepare to die for your mistake.
???: Heh. And how do you propose defeating us with so few soldiers?
Hans: What are you talking about?
???: Soldiers! Sally forth!
Scarlet: We're on it! Look at those pathetic losers. We can take 'em, no problem.
Leo: Where did you come from? When did the resistance get this strong?
Hans: Milord, we must retreat. We don't have a chance against these numbers.
Leo: Damn it! If Camilla weren't injured, we could make a stand... But I think you're right. We have no choice but to leave. This isn't over, Corrin!

Corrin: Whew...
Scarlet: Ha! They turned tail and ran! I guess the Nohrian royal army isn't so tough after all!
Corrin: Thank you, stranger. I'm not sure what would have happened if you hadn't arrived.
Scarlet: No problem. I'm Scarlet, by the way.
Corrin: Nice to meet you. I'm Corrin from Hoshido. So you're the leader of this resistance force we keep hearing about...
Scarlet: Yeah, that's us. Even though we live in Nohrian territory, we can't stand Garon. That's why we're on your side. The enemy of my enemy is my friend, right?
???: Heh. Heh.
Corrin: Oh, and you're the brave soldier who was first on the scene. You weren't scared of Leo at all, were you? I wish I could say we were as brave.
???: You still don't know who I am, do you?
Corrin: No. Should I? Wait...it can't be...
Ryoma: Haha! Thanks for coming all the way here to my aid, Corrin.
Corrin: Ryoma! Boy, are we glad to see you!@Intro 
Corrin: At last. King Garon...
Garon: I'm so glad you made it home.

Garon: Heh. Heh. Young Prince/Princess Corrin. It has been a while, hasn't it. For someone who spent much of his/her life as a pampered shut-in... You've achieved something approaching competence.
Corrin: Gee, thanks for the compliment. As I'm sure you're aware...we're here to dethrone you. You've sparked a needless war that has claimed thousands of innocent lives. Including my mother's...and those of your own children. Xander and Elise.
Garon: Hmm. I am surprised to hear that. Xander in particular was quite a capable pawn.
Corrin: A capable pawn? Your own son? Do you feel nothing at their deaths? What happened to you, old man?
Garon: How dare you insult me! Of course my own children were pawns. As are you. AS IS EVERYONE HERE!
Corrin: Xander and Elise thought of you until the very end! They fought and died trying to save you from my blade! Yet you feel no remorse?! You are clearly beyond redemption or negotiation. The only thing left is to do is end your reign...and your life.
Garon: Bwahaha!

Corrin: I...I can't even scratch his armor...
Garon: What did you expect? Attacking me with that pitiful letter opener you call a sword... Let me show you how it is done!

Azura: Corrin! Are you OK?
Corrin: I'm fine, Azura. He's not so tough.
Azura: Psst... Get ready. I'm going to sing my song now... He'll be vulnerable for a moment or two—so attack immediately! *ahem*
Garon: I don't think so.

Corrin: Azura! Let her go, Garon!
Garon: Don't even think about it. You'll never hear her pretty voice again. If any of you wish to escape here with your lives, I demand total surrender!
Azura: Forget...about...me. Just...attack him!
Corrin: I...I can't!
Ryoma: Hold it! Let's hear what he has to say before Azura gets hurt. King Garon... What are your demands? If you are reasonable, I'm sure that Nohr and Hoshido can come to an agreement. Now, please...let Azura go so that we can discuss this.
Garon: Wise decision. I demand nothing less than total, unconditional surrender from Hoshido. You are to transfer control of your kingdom to Nohr immediately. Also...I require your life. BAHAHA!

Corrin: No! Ryoma!
Ryoma: Watch out, Corrin. He's more powerful than I imagined...
Corrin: This negotiation is a sham! I won't let anyone else die today!
Garon: BAHAHA! What are you going to do about it, exactly? Will you drop your pathetic sword and surrender to me? Or will you fight—and ensure the deaths of all your friends?
Corrin: I don't understand... When I attacked him earlier, it was like my sword just bounced off Garon's armor... That never happened before. I need to figure out a way to hurt him...
Ryoma: You're right. We need more power...

Ryoma: Look... Raijinto is glowing!
Corrin: Is Garon doing that? What's going on?
Takumi: I don't think so. Remember when my Fujin Yumi combined with Yato? It's happening again!
Corrin: So that means Raijinto is— Urgh!
Ryoma: Corrin!
Corrin: Noble Yato is...changing somehow...
Ryoma: I can feel a new power coursing through Raijinto as well...
Corrin: This must be what the Rainbow Sage was talking about... The Seal of Flames! Our three weapons are unlocking something amazing... Noble Yato is becoming...Blazing Yato!
Garon: Call it whatever you like. It still has no hope of penetrating my defenses.
Corrin: Perhaps you're right. But there's only one way to know for sure. Hyaaah!
Garon: GRAAAH! That...actually hurt...
Corrin: Azura, now's your chance!
Azura: Thank you, Corrin!
Garon: You've just sealed your fate. Prepare to die. I'll cast your soul into the eternal darkness of Nohr! Soldiers! Surround them!
Corrin: Wrong. Blazing Yato gives me the power to bring light to your kingdom of darkness! Your reign is practically over, Garon!

@Boss 
Garon: HAH! Corrin should have known better than to send an underling. Or perhaps you're just a sacrificial lamb... 

Garon: You...you think you've won? Urk...

%Corrin,Garon
Garon: You're like a cockroach to me... How can you possibly think you can win?
Corrin: I've grown, Garon. I'm not a victim anymore. And I WILL defeat you!

@End 
Corrin: I did it... I really did it... Soldiers of Nohr! Lay down your weapons! Garon is defeated! Our next order of business is forging a peace treaty as soon as possible.
Garon: ...PEACE TREATY? GWAHAHA...
Corrin: No!
Garon: ARE YOU REALLY SURPRISED?
Corrin: What are you?!
Garon: NOW YOU SEE MY TRUE FORM. THE BLOOD OF THE DRAGONS RUNS IN MY VEINS—AS IT DOES YOURS. WITNESS MY POWER UNLEASHED!

Ryoma: Corrin!
Corrin: *cough* *cough* No! He destroyed the Blazing Yato! HOW?!
Garon: BAHAHA! EVEN I AM SURPRISED. I EXPECTED MORE FROM HOSHIDO'S MOST FEARSOME WEAPON.
Corrin: This can't be happening...
Ryoma: Hold fast, Corrin! Blazing Yato may be destroyed, but I can still attack with the power of Raijinto!
Takumi: Don't forget my Fujin Yumi!
Garon: YOUR WEAPONS ARE MERE TOYS AGAINST ME.

Corrin: NO! Ryoma, Takumi...are you OK?
Garon: YOUR ALLIES ARE WEAK. I WILL DESTROY THEM NOW.
Corrin: You can't! I...I'll protect them... Somehow...
Garon: DIE!
Corrin: Over here, Garon!

Corrin: Ugh...
Sakura: Corrin! Stop hurting him/her, you monster!
Ryoma: Why did you do that?!
Corrin: Ryoma...are you hurt?
Ryoma: What were you thinking, moving in front of his attack like that? You could have been killed!
Corrin: You worry too much, Brother... I'm fine. I can keep fighting. I can stop him. I can... Urgh...
Ryoma: Corrin!@Intro 
Corrin: ... Ugh...where am I? It's so dark... And I'm so tired...

Flora: Rise and shine, Lord/Lady Corrin!
Corrin: Flora! I...I must be in my bedroom.
Lilith: Heehee! Of course, Lord/Lady Corrin. Where else? Anyway, I've prepared your horse for you. You have practice this morning!
Corrin: Oh, Lilith, you're here too. But...I'm so sleepy. How late was I up last night?
Lilith: Well...
Flora: I know just the thing for a slugabed like you. ... Actually...never mind. I think you're going to have to wake up on your own for once.
Corrin: What's that supposed to mean? You seem...different somehow. Where's the ice magic I've come to know and loathe over the years? Come to think of it...where are Felicia and Jakob? They should be here...
Flora: Um...
Corrin: Flora? What's wrong?

Elise: Still in bed? Wake up, lazybones! Heehee!
Xander: Yes, your retainers have been awake and working on your behalf for hours.
Corrin: Good morning, Xander. And Elise... Sorry, I don't know what's wrong with me today. I'm just exhausted!
Elise: Well, you better get it together, or you'll be stuck in here forever!
Corrin: That's OK. As long as I have all of you with me, I'll always be happy. I don't mind staying here for the rest of my life.
Elise: Are you sure about that? Is that really what you want?
Corrin: What do you mean? Of course! And it's what Father wants for me, too.
Xander: Listen to me carefully, Corrin. What do you think Father's true intentions for you are?
Corrin: That's a weird question... I mean, he's my father! He gave me this castle and servants and raised me... Well, I mean, I guess you did most of the raising. But you know what I mean! He intends for me to follow in your footsteps, naturally! Remember? He gave me that special sword, and... And... NO!
Xander: ...
Corrin: Gods, I remember everything now... King Garon isn't my father! We...we were just battling in his throne room...
Xander: So you remember. What now?
Corrin: Am...am I dead?
Xander: No. You can still go back. But you must make a decision. You can choose to remain here, with us. Or you can go back...and fight with your allies.
Corrin: My allies...

Garon: YOUR HERO IS DEAD. ADMIT DEFEAT NOW AND YOUR SUFFERING WILL BE MINIMAL.
Ryoma: This is far from from over, Garon! Corrin still lives... I know it!
Azura: I, too, sense that Corrin is still present somehow...
Garon: VERY WELL. YOU HAVE BROUGHT THIS UPON YOURSELVES!

Azura: EEEE!
Ryoma: ARGHH!
Corrin: Ryoma! Azura! They're all in danger!
Xander: Yes. They're all waiting for you, Corrin. They believe you will rise again and fight alongside them.

Azura: It's not your time, Corrin. Open your eyes. Let me hear you voice again!

Felicia: I just know you're coming back. You're stronger than anyone!

Jakob: Lord/Lady Corrin, of all the times I've asked you to wake... This is the most crucial of them all!

Kaze: I believe in you Lord/Lady Corrin. You can't die here.

Silas: Can you still hear my voice? Hang in there, Corrin!

Mozu: You're just playing dead, right? It's the oldest trick in the book.

Shura: I believe in you. Just like you believed in me. Come on back to us.

Ryoma: Come on, Corrin... Wake up! I know you can do it!

Hinoka: I won't give up, so you can't either!

Takumi: Are you gonna let this overgrown salamander take you out like that? Get up!

Sakura: I won't leave your side, no matter what happens!

Saizo: Rise, Corrin. Your story cannot end this way.

Kagero: You've got to keep fighting, Corrin!

Azama: It is not your time to die, Corrin! Not for another 72 years and 19 days...

Setsuna: So you fainted. No big deal. Just get yourself together, and come back to us!

Hinata: You're stronger than this. Get up and fight like you always do.

Oboro: You can't die like this... You hair is all messed up!

Hana: I get it, you're taking a breather. Well, nap time's over—get up and fight!

Subaki: Perfection is in your grasp, Corrin!

Rinkah: Everyone believes in you. Your flame will go on forever!

Orochi: Your fate is not to die here. You will wake up!

Kaden: You can't die here, Corrin... I still haven't paid you back!

Hayato: This doesn't have to be the way it ends. Come on—let's finish this together!

Kana: Mama/Papa, don’t leave me! I promise I’ll be a good boy/girl from now on!! Please… *sniff*

Shigure: I do not wish to sing a requiem for you...

Dwyer: I know it's tempting to sleep forever, but you can't leave us like this!

Sophie: Why are you lying around like that? Wake up—we have work to do!

Midori: Don't give up! Hang on, and I'll whip up some medicine for you!

Shiro: I promise to keep fighting until you awaken. I won't give up, so you can't either!

Kiragi: Everything will be OK. It just has to be! I know you'll get up really soon!

Asugi: I should have been the one to take that hit! We still need you to lead us!

Selkie: Hey, dum-dum, if you die here, playtime is over FOREVER! So don't do it, OK?

Hisame: We've come too far to have the battle end like this...

Mitama: The flame of life burns / Truly, deeply...in your soul... / Awaken, my friend!

Caeldori: I want to fight at your side until the very end. You can't die!

Rhajat: You have to wake up... I can't follow you into death!

Reina: You can't die this way, Corrin! I want to hear you voice again.

Scarlet: I know you can open those eyes again, Corrin...

Yukimura: Lady Mikoto, if you can hear me... Please guide Corrin back to the living...

Izana: It wouldn't be a party without you, kid. So open those eyes, OK?

Anna: You’re a one-of-a-kind asset... No returns, if you catch my drift. So wake up already!

Corrin: My friends... I need to go back... I need to keep fighting!
Flora: Have you made up your mind, Lord/Lady Corrin?
Corrin: Yes. I have to go back. It's so tempting to stay here forever with all of you... But the world needs me right now.
Flora: I'm so proud of you. You've grown into such a fine young man/woman. Go! Save your friends, and save the world from Garon. We will always be watching over you.
Corrin: Thank you, Flora. I'm glad you could help me wake up one last time.

Lilith: None of us will ever forget you, Lord/Lady Corrin. I'll treasure every moment we spent together. The warmth of your hands when you rescued me that day... The feeling of comfort when I perched upon your shoulder. If you ever feel lonely, just know that I'm out there somewhere...thinking of you.
Corrin: Lilith...you're going to make me cry. I will never forget you, either. Your bravery...and your kindness. Thank you for everything.

Elise: Be strong, Corrin! I love you more than anyone else in the entire world! Oh! Can you give a message to Leo and Camilla for me? This might be my only chance to tell then how much I love them... And there's so much I want to say... Just tell them that I'm always thinking of them and that I miss them. And they better not fight anymore, or I'll be angry! Heehee!
Corrin: Of course, Elise. I love you too. I'll miss you...

Xander: Time has stopped for us here, but you have so much more life to live, little prince/princess. You can accomplish what we couldn't. You can save this world. I urge you to seize the future! Do it for those of us who cannot. Go now. My beloved brother/sister...
Corrin: Thank you, Xander. I finally understand why you made the choices you did. I won't let you down. I promise to make you proud no matter what!
Xander: Corrin...

Corrin: Everyone... I must leave now. I know someday our paths will cross again. In this realm or beyond... ... I'm going back to fight, not just for me but for all of you too! Everyone is waiting for me... I won't give up. I won't let Garon win. Yato, give me your strength!

Garon: SO YOU AWAKEN...
Corrin: Thank you, trusted Yato blade...
Ryoma: Everyone, Corrin is revived!
Corrin: I'm sorry for worrying you. Xander, Elise, and the others helped me find my way back to you. It's...hard to explain. But I'm back...and more determined than ever to end this war!
Hinoka: Yeah! Let's get 'em, Corrin!
Takumi: It's always all about you, isn't it... Just kidding, Brother/Sister. Let's do this.
Sakura: I was so w-worried about you...
Garon: NO MATTER. THIS MERELY DELAYS THE INEVITABLE. READY YOUR SWORD, SO THAT I MAY SHATTER IT ANEW!
Corrin: We'll see...

Garon: WHAT?!
Corrin: Hah! You see? Blazing Yato can never be destroyed! It is now fueled by the faith of Xander and Elise and everyone I love!
Garon: IMPUDENT FOOL!
Corrin: You're wrong, Garon. This is the path I chose, and you were always meant to be at the end of it. I WILL bring peace to the world and right all of your wrongs! And I'm not alone. We are all prepared to sacrifice ourselves for the greater good. That's true power. As you are about to find out!
Garon: THE ONLY THING I AM ABOUT TO FIND OUT... IS WHETHER YOUR BODY OR YOUR SWORD WILL BREAK FIRST!
Corrin: Get ready, everyone. This is it. We can end this war RIGHT NOW. Join me! And fight for the salvation of Hoshido...and Nohr!

Azura: It's time, Corrin. I'm going to sing my song without restraint. You must act while its effects are at their strongest.
Corrin: Wait—
Azura: No! Don't worry—and don't try to stop me. This is my destiny.
Corrin: Very well. Just don't forget the promise you made to me.
Azura: I haven't forgotten. Believe me, I have no wish to disappear!
Corrin: Then by all means, sing your heart out!
Azura: ...That's the first time you've ever done that.
Corrin: Done what?
Azura: Asked me to sing! It makes me happy to contribute to the cause.
Corrin: Well, we need all the help we can get. But not at the expense of your life.
Azura: I know, I'm sorry to worry you... But here I go!
Garon: GRAAAAH! I CAN'T MOVE! NO MATTER. SIMPLE TRICKS LIKE THIS WILL NOT HELP YOU. ANANKOS! GREAT ONE! GIVE ME POWER!

@Boss 
Garon: HAH! NEVER FORGET THAT YOU CHOSE THIS PATH. YOU CHOSE DEATH AND DEFEAT. YOU CHOSE DOOM. YOUR DEATH IS AT HAND!

Garon: URGH! THESE WOUNDS! THIS CAN'T BE! I REFUSE TO ACCEPT DEATH! I REFU— GYAAAAH!

@End 
Garon: I should have killed you when I had the chance. When you were a mere child...
Corrin: And why didn't you, King Garon? Why... Tell me why, Father!
Garon: Because you were my most precious pawn. I knew I could use you to get Queen Mikoto. No matter. I feel at peace now. How long has it been since I felt like this? Perhaps this is what I wanted all along... The sweet release of death... My...my body was destroyed. My mind...lost... Ever since that moment...I became something... Something... ...

Corrin: What...just happened? What did he mean by that? Was he...already dead? Were those the delirious ramblings of a dying man...or something more? Xander did say that Father—I mean King Garon—had changed... I wonder...

Azura: At...last. We can live...in peace...
Corrin: Azura!

Corrin: Please tell me you didn't overdo it... You don't look good!
Azura: Ughh... I'm sorry, Corrin. I promised you I wouldn't disappear. But...I'm not sure...I can keep my word...
Corrin: Please You can't just die like this! We did it, Azura! We made your dream come true. But what's it worth if you never experience it for yourself?
Azura: I'm at peace now, Corrin. I know that you and everyone else will be safe. That is worth everything. Will you listen to one more selfish request?
Corrin: *sob* What is it?
Azura: I want you to live a joyful life. Don't let this sour your victory.
Corrin: ...
Azura: The war is over, thanks to you. A world at peace... That's the world we dreamed of. That's the world I risked my life for. And it was worth it. So, it's your turn to make me a promise, Corrin...
Corrin: Azura...no...
Azura: Can I see you smile for me  one last time? One more smile...before I go.  That's right... Lovely...
Corrin: NO! I...I can't lose anyone else. I've lost so much... ...I will keep my promise, Azura. I won't let your sacrifice be in vain. Everyone... We have a lot of work ahead of us. Let's make this world a place we can be proud of again. When those who fell watch over us they'll know they can rest in peace. Azura... Sing for me again someday...

@Dialogue 
Yukimura: People of Hoshido! Let it be known that Ryoma, High Prince of Hoshido, has succeeded Queen Mikoto! He takes the throne at the cusp of a new era of peace in our land. Ryoma, please accept this crown as a symbol of your title.
Ryoma: Thank you, Yukimura. As king, I vow to uphold the values my mother represented so well. Justice. Charity. Equality. And above all else...peace. We shall lead the world into a new age of prosperity!

Corrin: Ryoma...has it even hit you? You're king!
Sakura: You look so r-regal! I'm so happy for you, Brother... *sniffle*
Corrin: Are you OK, Sakura? This should be a happy occasion...
Sakura: Yes, I know. I was just thinking of how happy this would make Mother...
Corrin: I'm so sorry. But I think you're right. She is happy, wherever she is...
Hinoka: Yeah. She's probably watching over us right now, tearing up herself. *sniffle* Aw, damn it!
Corrin: You too, Hinoka? We've got to pull ourselves together—at least until the end of the ceremony!
Takumi: He's/She's right. How does it look to people out there with us all sobbing up here?
Corrin: Quiet, everyone! I think Ryoma has a bit more to say...
Sakura: Shh!

Ryoma: Before you all leave, I have a few more words for you. With any war come casualties. But the casualties of this war have been almost too much to bear. I speak, of course, of our beloved Queen Mikoto. Still, we must move forward. The crisis our world faced is finally at an end. And in this moment, we have done something extraordinary... We have made peace with the kingdom of Nohr! I know some of you here today probably find it hard to swallow. But there can be no light without dark. The two complement each other... And so, too, do the two greatest kingdoms there ever were. They each have something the other lacks and together are made whole. We in Hoshido must share our light and our bounty. We have much to learn from our brothers and sisters at Nohr. Let us live...together. Let us move forward on the same path toward a brighter future. Thank you for your time, and may the gods bless you.

Corrin: Well spoken, Ryoma. *sob*
Sakura: Hah! He got you, too.
Corrin: No, I just some smoke in my eyes...
Hinoka: It's OK. We all did.
Takumi: AHEM. Speak for yourself, Sister.
Corrin: Hah! At lease we can count on Takumi to bring us back to reality.
Yukimura: Excuse me, but the ceremony is not quite over...
Corrin: I'm so sorry, Yukimura. Please continue.
Yukimura: This concludes the coronation ceremony! May Hoshido and King Ryoma reign in glory forever.

Corrin: ...

Corrin: That was a wonderful speech, Ryoma. I just hope all the crying didn't distract you too much.
Ryoma: Thank you, Corrin. No, I didn't even notice. Hopefully you didn't notice how nervous I was up there.
Corrin: You, nervous? I don't believe it! You looked right in your element. Bold and regal, befitting your new title.
Ryoma: Really? Well, thank you. That's reassuring.
Corrin: Yes, It was quite a moment what Yukimura handed you the crown.
Camilla: Oh yes. Even I was moved. Not to tears, mind you...
Leo: I had no idea the Hoshidan royals were such softies.
Corrin: Camilla! Leo! I'm so glad you could make it today.
Leo: Of course. It wouldn't do for Hoshido's newest allies to miss Ryoma's coronation, would it?
Corrin: Well, I suppose not. But I know you've both been busy since the way ended. I'm so happy to see both of you!
Leo: You too, Corrin. Although I can't say I'm fully comfortable walking around Hoshido just yet.
Corrin: Leo, I assure you—
Camilla: Oh please, Leo. What about when you were milling around the outdoor market this morning? Remember? You were going on about how great it was to see Corrin again?
Leo: Camilla!
Camilla: Ahaha! Anyway, it's wonderful to see you, Corrin. But I must admit that the loss of Xander and Elise still weighs heavily on me... How are you holding up?
Corrin: I think about them every day. Their deaths will be a burden I carry for the rest of my life.
Ryoma: I'm so sorry for your loss. Those who fell in the war will never be forgotten. We won't easily forget how many lives were lost to Hoshidan blades... All we can do to atone is prevent such a war from ever happening again.
Camilla: Right you are.
Ryoma: Were it within my power as king, my first act would be to bring back your siblings. And Azura as well...
Sakura: Oh...I miss Azura so much...
Hinoka: I didn't spend enough time with her when she was alive... *sniffle*
Takumi: Again with the crying? Look, it may have taken me a while to warm up to Azura, but in the end... I..I really miss her, too. *sniffle*
Corrin: Now we've done it. Even Takumi is crying.
Leo: You guys are going to need to hold it together at my coronation, OK? We can't have all Nohr thinking that Hoshidans are moved so easily to tears.
Corrin: YOUR coronation? But I thought Camilla was next in line...
Camilla: Oh, that was supposed to be a surprise! You ruined it, Leo! To answer your question... Yes, I am next in line for the crown. But I begged Leo to take my place, and he has graciously accepted. I have no desire to run a kingdom.
Leo: So there you have it. You should know that I have big plans for Nohr. I think a friendly competition with Hoshido will be good for both of us. And on that note, I'm quite busy...so it's time I said my good-byes.
Camilla: I'll join you. Everyone, I look forward to seeing you at the coronation ceremony in Nohr!
Corrin: Thank you, Camilla. We'll be there. And off they go...
Ryoma: Yes, but you'll see them again soon. They are your siblings, after all.
Hinoka: Too bad they're leaving so soon. They're going to miss the festival!
Corrin: Hmm?
Hinoka: That's right...I forgot you've never seen a Hoshidan festival before. It's kind of like...the biggest party you can imagine. So put all those sad feelings on the back burner...and get ready to DANCE!
Corrin: Thank sounds like just the thing. We could all stand to let off some steam.
Sakura: Oh, it's been so long since we've had a proper festival... I can w-wait!
Takumi: Just try not to embarrass yourselves this time, guys. You're members of the royal family!
Ryoma: Need I remind you of a certain incident not so long ago? ...Involving you dancing on stage with a band of musicians? I kid, Brother. Hmm...it would behoove me to make an offering on Mother's behalf at some point. Perhaps some vendor is selling those sweet rice dumplings she used to love...
Felicia: This is going to be great! How can I help?
Jakob: Let's just make sure the crowds don't get too rowdy. Other than that, we're on official orders to have a good time!
Silas: Nohrians and Hoshidans...partying together. What has the world come to?
Corrin: Thank you, everyone. Having all of you by my side fills my heart with joy. Now, please. I've heard enough about peace and justice and the future. As Hinoka said, let's have some fun for once!

Corrin: Whew...they weren't kidding about the festival. I'm exhausted. Maybe I should take a little break... It's all just a bit overwhelming. Hmm... This place seems familiar... Oh! It's where I first met Azura. Oh, Azura...

Corrin: Am I hearing things?! That's her song!

Corrin: Azura! Maybe I'm just hallucinating due to the exhaustion, but I don't care. I'm so glad to see you!
Azura: Shh.
Corrin: ...Azura?
Azura: Tell me, Corrin. What do you see in this lake?
Corrin: Just water, I suppose. What am I supposed to see?
Azura: I think if you look carefully, you might sense something deeper... Empty your mind of thoughts, and let yourself be in the moment.
Corrin: Well, OK...
Azura: Good. Keep you focus on the lake. Don't look away.
Corrin: But, I have so much I want to say...
Azura: Not now. Just do as I ask.
Corrin: Very well. ... I'm sorry, but I have to get this off my chest. I want to thank you for everything you've done. You're the most selfless person I've ever known, and I just... Wait Azura? *sigh*

Corrin: Maybe my mind was just playing a trick on me...
Azura: Thank you for your bravery, Corrin. I hope we can meet again someday...
Corrin: Azura...if you can hear me... ... I'm sure we will meet again. Somehow. Until then...I will never forget you.
Ryoma: Corrin, what are you doing out here all by yourself? Don't tell me you're calling it a night. The festival is still going strong!
Corrin: Heh. I was just taking a breather. You guys sure know how to celebrate. You can tell everyone I'll be right back. I just need a few more minutes to dream... 

@Cutscene 
Hinoka:  You know, I always wanted to take you flying.

Sakura: Hello, hello! How's the view up there?  Hey!
Takumi: Don't fall now! Careful!

Ryoma: I told Mother...the war is over. 

Ryoma: You stood for peace. Always. We carry on your legacy.
Takumi: Yes.
Hinoka: Yeah.
Sakura: Yes.
Ryoma: That said...our task will always be a difficult one.

Ryoma: But no matter how hard it may be...

Ryoma: We will succeed...with you at our side.

Ryoma:  All of us...hand in hand.@Intro 
Corrin: I'm guessing we're on the right track... It's absolutely freezing out here.
Flora: Heehee. It feels great to me, but I know it's not for everyone. Just hang tight. There's a warm cabin waiting for you at the end.
Corrin: Thank you, Flora. I have to commend your navigating skills as well. We've somehow managed to avoid running afoul of any Nohrian troops the whole way.
Flora: Yeah...I guess we just got lucky...
Felicia: She's right, Lord/Lady Corrin. This was just the most direct route. I would have chosen the same route if I were leading us.
Flora: Why must you always one-up me, sister? What's the point?
Felicia: What are you talking about? I'm not trying to one-up you. You're the one who's always been so perfect. I've always looked up to you.
Flora: Oh, I'm sorry. I don't know what came over me. Thank you for the kind words.
Felicia: Just don't let it go to your head, all right?
Corrin: For the rest of the group's reference: yes, they've always been like this. *sigh*
Ryoma: What's wrong, Corrin? You haven't seemed yourself lately.
Corrin: Well, to be honest...our encounter with Iago is still bothering me. I'd hate to think I can't trust everyone here, but I've been burned once before...
Ryoma: That's not your style, Corrin. You're on your way to becoming a great leader, and you lead by example. If you don't trust your own troops, how will they trust you? Don't let what happened with Zola shake your confidence.
Corrin: I don't know. I feel like things have changed. The stakes have been raised. As if they could get any higher...
Ryoma: Let's take a step back, shall we? Do you trust me, Corrin?
Corrin: Of course.
Ryoma: All right. How about Sakura and Takumi? Think about Hinoka, Azura, and Silas too. Any of them potential suspects?
Corrin: Absolutely not. I believe in all of them!
Ryoma: Very well. How can you be so sure?
Corrin: I...I just can. I don't know. It's a gut feeling, I guess...
Ryoma: Precisely. This is both your weakness and your strength. You have a keen intuition for people and natural charisma. Yet you lack the years of experience needed to make calculated decisions. So? Follow your strength. Use your intuition. Don't try to be what you're not.
Corrin: Thank you Ryoma. The problem is that my intuition is telling me that Iago wasn't lying. Regardless, I'll try to focus on the task at hand. Thank you.
Ryoma: Of course.
Felicia: Hey, guys, we're almost there!

Corrin: Brr! Where's that warm cabin you promised, Flora?
Flora: Just a minute, Lord/Lady Corrin. I need to check in with the village elders.
Corrin: By all means. But please, hurry back—we're freezing out here!

Corrin: Gods...I can't feel my own face. How does anyone actually LIVE here?
Felicia: Heehee! When you're born here, you never even notice how cold it is.
Corrin: The rest of us, meanwhile, could use some sweaters and a roaring fire.
Felicia: Well, hopefully Flora will be back shortly. I don't want you to think the Ice Tribe doesn't know how to treat its guests. Ah, here she is. Hey, Sister!

Flora: Ahem...
Felicia: Flora, everyone is freezing. It's adorable! But we should really get them inside so they can warm up.
Flora: Felicia...I'm sorry.
Felicia: What for?

Corrin: It's getting even colder! And I can't see anything... What's going on?
Felicia: What are you doing, Sister? Knock it off!
Flora: I can't. I can't allow Lord/Lady Corrin to live. He/She betrayed King Garon and the kingdom of Nohr.
Felicia: You can't be serious!
Jakob: Flora, listen to reason. This is madness.
Flora: No, it is our king's will. Stand aside, Jakob, or I'll destroy you as well.
Jakob: How dare you...
Flora: Very well. If I have to kill all of you, I won't hesitate to do so. You've been warned.
Corrin: This can't be happening. Flora, are you under the direct control of King Garon or Iago? Stop this at once and rejoin us! And together we can end his hateful rule!
Flora: No. My mind is made up, and I'm acting of my own free will.
Felicia: What is wrong with you?!
Flora: Felicia... Don't worry—I won't target you. You have betrayed us as well, but I'm sure King Garon will be merciful...if you join my side right now.
Felicia: Never!
Flora: Really? Come on, Felicia. It's still me. We can do this together!
Felicia: I could never attack Lord/Lady Corrin... My job is to protect him/her!
Felicia: And I'm not the only Nohrian who's turned her back on King Garon's atrocities.
Felicia: If you had, you'd know that Corrin is just trying to follow the path of justice! So, even though it means fighting against my own sister and tribe... I stand with Lord/Lady Corrin.
Flora: I wish I had your strength...
Felicia: You do! You can still do the right thing!
Flora: No! Forget what I said. This has gone on long enough. I'm going to end it quickly.
Felicia: Please, no!
Corrin: Flora, I still believe in you! I know that King Garon must have something over you. But if we stick together, I promise we have the strength to take him on. Flora! Are you listening?

@Visit 
Boy: I've got nothing for you. Go ahead and kill me if you must! You should give up now, though. Do you even realize you're surrounded?

Old Man: Nothing but old bones and dust in this house, youngster. All I can offer is a warning—our soldiers love hiding in the snow!

Child: People in town are saying you're the bad guys...but I don't know what to think. I've seen some of those Nohr soldiers doing awful things to our people. Here, take this. It's not much, but it's all I can give. I just ask that you spare Flora and the other locals. Good luck!

Girl: Why did you have to come here and make all this fuss? Well, no matter. Now that you're here, we can't let any of you leave, I'm afraid.

Old Woman: Ahhh! Get out of here! I don't want any trouble. Hey, soldiers! The invaders are at my front doorstep. COME GET 'EM!

@Boss 
Flora: I had no choice...

Flora: Thank you...for stopping me...

%Corrin,Flora
Corrin: Flora! Why are you doing this? Please! There must be a reason.
Flora: I told you already. You betrayed Nohr. Now quit asking about it!
Corrin: This isn’t you...
Flora: You don’t even know the real me. Now it’s time for you to die!

%Felicia,Flora
Flora: So...they sent you to face me.
Felicia: Sister, I’m here to talk you out of this madness. It’s not too late to change your mind!
Flora: No, I can’t turn back. And I won’t go easy on anyone—not even you.
Felicia: *sob* *sob* No! This can’t be happening…

%Jakob,Flora
Jakob: Flora! Stop this madness at once and return to your senses. You've embarrassed me more than enough for one lifetime.
Flora: Jakob... I wish it didn't have to be this way. I wish we could have just stayed in the fortress... Happily serving Lord/Lady Corrin until we were old and gray... We could have had a future together. Just know that I'll always regret this.
Jakob: What? I can't hear you over this ridiculous snowstorm.
Flora: That's just as well. It's fitting that my hopes and dreams should blow away in the wind...

@End 
Corrin: You left me no choice, Flora. I've been as merciful as I can be, but I need to hear it from you. What is Garon threatening you with?
Flora: I...I can't... Ugh. I guess it's all over. I have nothing left to lose, so... Garon said he'd destroy my entire village if I didn't cooperate.
Corrin: You see? That's exactly why we must stand against him!
Flora: But you don't understand! Garon said that if I didn't kill you and Felicia myself...he'd kill everyone in the village and burn it to the ground! I made the toughest choice of my life. To protect many at the expense of a few...
Corrin: But, Flora... How could you be sure Garon would even keep his promise to spare your village?
Flora: I know...but it was that or risk certain destruction. He gave me 30 seconds to make a decision before killing me on the spot. Being weak and afraid of death...I shamefully decided to betray you.
Corrin: None of this is your fault, Flora. I just wish you'd trusted that we could help you...
Flora: Well, nothing will change the fact that I betrayed you. Not to mention my own flesh and blood. For that...I deserve to die.
Corrin: Flora. Please don't be so hard on yourself.
Jakob: Yes. You've been foolish, but we have survived. Now it's time to regroup.
Felicia: See, Sister? It's all over. All is forgiven. Please come talk to me.
Flora: Everyone... GET BACK!

Felicia: Flora...NO!
Jakob: What in the devil are you doing?
Corrin: Oh, gods! No! Flora, what have you done?
Flora: This is what I should have done the moment Garon threatened me. Perhaps I could have taken him out with me...
Corrin: Somebody help! Put out the fire!
Felicia: Stand back... HAAA!

Felicia: Oh no... It's not working!
Jakob: The fire must be enchanted... It's getting even stronger! We need water! Won't someone bring water?
Corrin: Flora! You have the power to stop this! PLEASE! DO IT NOW!
Flora: No, Lord/Lady Corrin. I finally feel at peace.
Corrin: Please! *sob* Don't do this! We can still save you...
Felicia: My ice power isn't strong enough to put out the fire... Flora, why won't you listen to reason?
Flora: Please stop trying to save me. This is what I deserve.
Felicia: Flora, NO! You can't die like this!
Flora: Ughh... The end is near... Felicia... Lord/Lady Corrin... I regret...everything. ...
Felicia: Sister, NO! NOOOOOO! SISTER!
Corrin: Gods...why... Flora...
Jakob: What a foolish and terrible waste of life. I think I am going to be sick.
Felicia: *sob* *sob* Sister...please wake up! Tell me that this is just a bad dream...
Corrin: ... King Garon claims another beautiful life. He...will...PAY! I swear on my own life. We're coming for you, Garon.@Intro 
Azura: We're finally here. Izumo.
Corrin: It's beautiful. I had no idea...
Azura: Yes. Some call this place the kingdom of the gods. Even when other kingdom are at war. Izumo has remained neutral. It almost seems...too good to be true.
Izumite: Who's there?
Corrin: Ho! Visitors from Hoshido. We seek information about two of our friends who may have passed this way.
Azura: Will you please give us permission to enter your territory?
Izumite: Ah, Lady Azura. Of course. People from the kingdom of Hoshido are always welcome within our borders. I'll notify the palace, and someone will be with you shortly.
Azura: Thank you.
Corrin: Excuse me, before you go... We're looking for Lord Ryoma and Lord Takumi. We believe they were involved in a battle near your borders. Do you have any information about them?
Izumite: A battle...around here? No, I don't think so.
Corrin: Really? Nothing?
Izumite: Sir/Milady, Izumo has been a neutral territory for many generations. There's simply no way a battle could have been staged around here. Ah, it seems we're ready to welcome you. Please, come this way.
Corrin: Very well.  
Azura:  ...

Corrin: Well, I'm no quite sure what we're supposed to do now. Just wait around until someone arrives?
Sakura: Yes. This is probably just a bit of formal grandstanding. I've heard that Archduke Izana likes to make people wait a few m-minutes.
Corrin: Well, as long as he eventually shows up with some answers for us...

Izana: ...
Corrin: Wow, is that the archduke? He looks so...serene!
Hinoka: I've never met him, but I think it must be. And you're right about his looks. He's almost oddly calm...
Sakura: This is actually making me nervous...
Izana: Welcome.
Corrin: Lord? Archduke Izana? May I call you Lord?
Izana: Bwahaha! Please, call me anything you like. Welcome, welcome! Can I get you anything fizzy or bubbly? Or anything wibbly or wobbly? Heehee!
Corrin: Um...
Hinoka: He's a little different than I expected...
Izana: Oh, pardon me, I didn't even introduce myself. I'm Archduke Izana! Voted best hair in Izumo five years running! I'm so happy to have some visitors from Hoshido. Now, what kind of weird stuff do y'all like to get into back in the homeland? No, never mind, we'll get into all that later. Let's just sit back and relax and put on some slippers for now, right? Am I right?
Corrin: Um, yes. You're right. Than you.
Azura: Archduke, before we get to the slippers, we have some important questions for you. Are you aware of a recent battle between Hoshido and Nohr in this area?
Izana: A recent battle? Ha! Not likely! And I'd be the first one to know about it. You know, 'cause I'm the archduke. Giddyup! Haha!
Azura: I see.
Corrin: Maybe we're in the wrong place...
Izana: Now hold on just a minute, partner. You're in the rightest place of all. Izana's house! But now that you mentioned a battle, I do see that some of you are wounded. Gosh, we can't have that, can we? Not with all the resources I have here. Guys, we've got some great healers and doctors in my kingdom.
Sakura: Yes, I've heard about the healers here. They're supposed to be the best.
Corrin: Excellent. We certainly could use a little bit of rejuvenation. Of course, we can't stay long, but it seems wise to heal our wounds while we can.
Azura: Perhaps...
Izana: Well, I won't take no for an answer. Let's get started with treatments right away! Come on, everyone, let's head over to the spa.
Sakura: Thank you, Archduke.
Izana: Ooh, what do we have here? You look pretty banged up, little lady! And your friend—Corrin, was it? Well, you're looking a bit frazzled as well. Tell you what. I've got something special in mind for the two of you. Deep restorative healing is what I call it. It mends the body and soothes the mind. Whaddaya say?
Sakura: Just the two of us?
Corrin: I'm not sure we're the only ones with significant wounds... But perhaps we should just play along.
Izana: Come on, guys! The hot towels won't stay hot forever!
Hinoka: Hmm...

Corrin: It's pretty dark in here. I guess that must help with relaxation. I wonder what all of these sharp-looking devices are for...
Izana: Welcome.
Corrin: Archduke, are we in the right place? This is the deep-relaxation chamber?
Izana: Oh yes. You will go to sleep literally forever in this room. It's our execution chamber! Heehee!
Corrin: Wait a minute!

Sakura: Corrin, we're surrounded!
Corrin: What are you playing at, Izana? This is not funny.
Izana: Well, we haven't even reached the punchline yet. I'm not Izana. Boom.

Zola: Eeheehee! It's been a while, hasn't it, young Corrin? Or don't you remember me? I'm Zola! Dark mage of Nohr.
Corrin: Am I supposed to be impressed? I don't care who you are. All I care about is what you've done with Izana.
Zola: What? Why would you care about that creep? I'm the one who's finally captured the famous Corrin! I'm the one who matters! Anyway, good luck getting yourself and Princess Sakura out of THIS! Heehee!

Corrin: All right...stay behind me, Sakura.
Sakura: What are you going to do? There are too many of them...
Zola: Prepare to die!
Corrin: Here we go...

Corrin: What's going on? Are they attacking each other?
Zola: No! Idiots! What are you doing?

Hinoka: This is some healing treatment our hosts have arranged for us, eh?
Corrin: Hinoka! How did you know?
Zola: This can't be happening...
Kaze: Very impressive, Lady Hinoka. You were right on all counts.
Azura: I, too, had my doubts about this situation. Thank you for acting on your instincts, Hinoka.
Sakura: I'm so glad you guys are here.
Zola: How in the world did you suspect anything? My Izana disguise as perfect! No matter. I still have enough power to defeat you. The joke is still on you!
Hinoka: Your supposed archduke acted a buffoon. No royalty would behave like that.
Azura: Precisely.
Zola: How dare you! My impression was flawless. Move forth, men. Take them out!
Corrin: Get ready, everyone. We've still got a fight on our hands.

@Battle 
Hinata: What's going on here? I thought we were in Izumo! I guess that whole "neutral kingdom" thing isn't working out for 'em anymore. Anyway...do you see Lord Takumi anywhere? I didn't get much info out of those Nohrian soldiers.
Oboro: Perhaps that's because you tied them up and gagged them before questioning them!
Hinata: Bah. You would have done the same thing, and you know it. I'll tie up as many people as I need to track down Lord Takumi.
Oboro: Whatever. I just wish you were the one missing. Then it would just be me and Lord Takumi relaxing in an Izumo sauna...
Hinata: Ugh! Keep it to yourself! Anyway, we've got some work to do. Maybe these guys can lead us to Lord Takumi.
Oboro: You're right. I can't stand these Nohrian scum. If they've done ANYTHING to harm our master...I don't know what I'll do.
Hinata: OK, OK, get a hold of yourself. If you kill all of them on a bloody rampage, then where will we be?
Oboro: You're right. I will decimate them with calculated efficiency...but spare a few. Let's go!

@Recruit-Talk 
%Corrin,Oboro
Oboro: Die, Nohr scum!
Corrin: Hold! I'm with Hoshido!
Oboro: Wait...who are you? You seem familiar.
Corrin: I'm Corrin. And who are you?
Oboro: Oh! Lord Takumi's brother/sister! It's nice to finally meet you. I'm Oboro, Lord Takumi's retainer. Have...have you seen him? We can't find him anywhere!
Corrin: No. But we're hopeful that he's not far from here. We could use your assistance tracking him. Will you join us? I only ask that you...temper your zeal for killing Nohrian moderately.
Oboro: Yes, of course. It's just...every time I see one of those evil jerks... I just...start to rage! GRRRRRR! But, if I keep my thoughts focused on my dear Takumi. I can control myself. I'll do my best to assist you, Lord/Lady Corrin.
Corrin: Thank you, Oboro, good to have you with us.

%Corrin,Hinata 
Corrin: You're not with Zola. Whose side are you on?
Hinata: Lord/Lady Corrin! You don't know who I am?
Corrin: I'm afraid not. Should I?
Hinata: Ha! Probably. The name’s Hinata. I'm Lord Takumi's retainer. Unfortunately, we became separated on the battlefield. We're doing everything we can to track him down, but we're running out of ideas. Will you help us find him?
Corrin: Yes, of course. That's why we're all here, too. It looks like we must be on the right track. since we've all arrived at the same location.
Hinata: Thank you, Lord/Lady Corrin. It's big of you to put aside your differences and help us find Takumi. Especially after some of the things he's been saying...

@Boss 
Zola: Ah, I see you're ready to die. I'm going to enjoy this!

Zola: Urgh... What was I thinking...

@End 
Corrin: Game over, Zola. Now tell us where you're keeping Izana!
Zola: *cough* *cough* Urk... No...
Corrin: What do you mean, no? You're beaten!
Zola: Oh my. How naive you are. What a sheltered life you've lived! I'd rather die than give you ANYTHING. Luckily, I won't have to. PAH!

Corrin: *cough* *cough* He's using some kind of a smoke screen!
Zola: Bingo! Until next time, fools!

Zola: GYAAAH! Ow, ow, ow... What are you doing? Let me go!
Leo: No.
Corrin: Leo! What are you doing here?
Leo: Ah, Zola. You've embarrassed our kingdom for the last time.
Zola: Milord! Please, you don't mean that... I was just attempting to preserve my dignity.
Leo: Dignity? What would you know about that? You're done here.
Zola: Gyaaaah! Nooo...
Corrin: Leo, what are you going to do?
Leo: Zola is a monster. I'm going to make the world a better place.
Corrin: But he's one of your own! I refuse to believe you'd harm a fellow Nohrian.
Leo: Why should I listen to a traitor like you? You abandoned us! You have no right to tell me what to do!
Corrin: Leo...please.
Leo: Ugh, fine! Keep this pitiful fool if you like him so much. Good-bye, Corrin. When the time is right, you'll pay for what you've done.

Corrin: Leo, wait! It doesn't have to be this way...
Hinoka: I've never seen such a display of power.
Jakob: Yes... Lord Leo is a gifted dark mage. He's feared and respected in Nohr.
Corrin: He's certainly changed since the time I spent there. The Leo I remember was kind and curious. Even clumsy at times. I wonder what happened to him...

Izana: Woooo! You guys saved me! This calls for a feast. No, better idea—an all-night party! We'll wear pajamas and eat bonbons. Let's get started! Izana in the house!
Sakura: Is...is this still Zola?
Hinoka: No...but I think we underestimated Zola's Izana impression.
Corrin: Um, Archduke Izana, before we get to the bonbons, I have a few questions. Have you witnessed any nearby conflicts involving the Nohrians?
Izana: Oh, yeah. Definitely. What a bunch of party poopers they were. We were just listening to some music and getting massages. And then I heard, like, a big explosion or something outside. I went to see what was going on, and they captured me. I was still wearing my silk pj's! Anyway, we're all about love, peace, and chicken grease here in Izumo... So we don't exactly have a world-class military force. I don't know what happened after that. I was in my own jail. Luckily, I previously had the cell equipped with velvet sheets and scented candles. Best sleep I've had in weeks!
Corrin: I'm so sorry you had to, uh, suffer through all that...
Hinoka: Yes. It's despicable for Nohr to take advantage of a neutral realm like this. Archduke Izana, I know you've been confined to a luxuriously appointed cell... But would you happen to know anything about my brothers Ryoma and Takumi?
Izana: Well, I've heard of them! That's something, right? I did overhear that the battle stretched all the way to the Bottomless Canyon. Maybe they just fell in?
Sakura: Gods! No!
Hinoka: Get ahold of yourself, Sakura! Your brothers are not the type to accidentally fall into a canyon. We've got to believe that both of them are alive and healthy.
Izana: I'm sorry—that was rude of me to speculate like that. It's just that that canyon is totally treacherous! Such a hazard! Anyway, maybe I can help by reading your fortune.
Corrin: I'm a bit skeptical of fortune-telling...but this is your kingdom...
Izana: Yep! And I'm a descendant of the gods! It really is a pretty sweet deal from me. All right, here we go...

Izana: Oh, ancient gods... What's up? I ask that you please answer me. ... Oh, I'm getting something! In the white light, a hand ♪ reaches through... A double edged blade cuts your ♪ heart in two... waking dreams fade away... ♪ Embrace the brand-new day...
Azura: Can it be?
Izana: Om...
Corrin: Is that it?
Izana: Om...
Corrin: Hmm.
Izana: All right, I'm all done.
Corrin: Oh. That's it?
Hinoka: I'm sorry, but that wasn't very helpful.
Izana: Hey, what can I tell you? I don't make the fortunes up—I just read 'em.
Corrin: Very well. Let's just move on.
Izana: Sounds good to me. I'm dying for something bubbly to drink. Who wants to join me in the sauna? Oh, right. You probably want to hurry off and find your friends. Well, there's no rush. I peeked into their fortunes a little bit just now. And I can tell you that they're both doing OK at the moment.
Sakura: Are you s-sure? I'd really like to believe that.
Izana: I swear it on my gold-plated statue of myself. They're fine.
Corrin: Well. Thank you, Archduke Izana, for your hospitality and services as fortune-teller. It is tempting to stay and rest, but we'll leave now in search of our brothers.
Izana: I knew it. Oh well! Come back again sometime, and we'll have a toga party.
Corrin: I don't know what that is, but...OK. Take care.

Corrin: I can't stop thinking about the fortune Izana read for us... Those words were so poetic. "A double-edged blade..." "Embrace the brand-new day..."
Azura: Corrin, I must speak with you.
Corrin: Is everything OK?
Azura: Yes. Well, I don't know, actually... It's about that fortune.
Corrin: It was strange, wasn't it? And a bit haunting, too...
Azura: Yes. Those were the words to a song my mother taught me as a child.
Corrin: Are you certain? Do you remember the meaning behind the lyrics?
Azura: No. It's an ancient song. But this is what troubles me. The lyrics almost seem to speak directly to YOU.
Corrin: To me? How is that possible?
Azura: I don't know. the song has always been a bit of a mystery... But I never thought about trying to solve it until now.
Corrin: Perhaps it's just a coincidence. Right? I mean, how could someone write a song about me if I hadn't been born... Oh, um...
Azura: *sob*
Corrin: Azura, what's the matter?
Azura: I'm sorry... Please forget about all of this.
Corrin: All right, I'll drop it for now. But don't hesitate to come speak with me about anything. At any time. I'm here for you.
Azura: Thank you, Corrin. All right, let's get going, shall we?
Corrin: Azura?

Corrin: What was she trying to tell me?@Intro 
Kaze: Pardon me, milord/milady. I've finished scouting the surrounding area.
Corrin: Thank you Kaze. How does it look?
Kaze: I'm afraid it's not good. I don't believe the Nohrian army is aware of our precise location, but... They have moved to block all possible routes to the castle. Even the back roads and trails. They are being quite thorough. There are thousands of troops massing.
Corrin: Thousands. And we are just a handful. Well, thank you again, Kaze, for taking on such a difficult scouting mission.
Kaze: Of course, milord/milady. May I ask... How do you plan on proceeding? I don't see any way we can get around Nohr's forces undetected.
Corrin: There's really NO other route we can take?
Ryoma: That's not entirely true.
Corrin: Oh? Well, let's hear it! It doesn't look like we have any other options.
Ryoma: Technically speaking, it is possible to reach Nohr via Mount Garou. However, Mount Garou is more commonly known as the Impassable Peak.
Kaze: How can you even suggest such a thing, Lord Ryoma? We'd fare better against 10,000 Nohrian soldiers out in the open!
Ryoma: I am aware of the downside... and so is Nohr. That must be why they're forcing us in that direction.
Kaze: Right. I didn't see any troops blocking the entrance to the peak... But that is surely intentional.
Ryoma: What do you think, Corrin? This may be our best chance.
Corrin: Well, we can't just stay here. We're a small force, but we're powerful and nimble. I think we should take our chances with Garou.
Ryoma: Then it is agreed. Kaze, can you guide us to the best possible entry point?
Kaze: Of course, milord.

Corrin: *huff* *huff* *huff* First the Eternal Stairway...now this. At least we don't have to worry about staying in condition with all this exercise.
Ryoma: I'm afraid the physical demands of this peak aren't our only worry... How are you doing, Corrin? Do you need to take a break?
Corrin: No, I'm OK. But it looks as though we've put some distance on the others. Perhaps we should give them a chance to catch up and rest.
Ryoma: Good idea. I'll backtrack a little bit and alert the leaders. Wait...someone else is here!
Corrin: Where? I don't see anyone...
Wolfskin: Grrrr...
Ryoma: Watch out, Corrin!

Wolfskin: Grr... *snarl*
Corrin: What are we dealing with, Ryoma? Another of Nohr's monsters?
Ryoma: No, these are wolfskin—a tribe with shapeshifting abilities. They're the other hazard associated with crossing Mount Garou.
Keaton: Hey! What are you guys doing in our den?
Corrin: I'm sorry...who are you?
Keaton: Me? Oh, my name's Keaton. And you CAN'T HAVE MY FUR, got it? Some other humans came and tried to get my fur. But I collected their bones instead. Ha! The joke's on them.

Ryoma: He does appear to have a collection of human bones...
Corrin: I'm sorry. I think there's been a misunderstanding. We're not after your fur. We just want to pass through the area. We mean you no harm!
Keaton: Really? How can I trust you? My fur is pretty soft, you know. A lot of people want it!
Corrin: Please, believe me. We have no intention of fighting. Everyone! Set down your weapons.
Ryoma: I hope you know what you're doing, Corrin...
Takumi: Yeah, you better be right about this.
Corrin: There. You see, we're sorry about trespassing, but we come in peace. We'd just like to pass through this area.
Keaton: Hmm...
Wolfskin: Grr!
Keaton: All right, all right. I think they're telling the truth. Let's let these humans through.
Corrin: Thank you Keaton. We appreciate it.

Wolfskin: Gyaaah!

Keaton: What was that?
Corrin: Some kind of explosion! Everyone, get down!
Ryoma: Look, up there. What is that?
Corrin: It looks like...dark energy. The same kind that exploded from my sword... Have we been set up by King Garon again?
Keaton: Hey! Hey! Wake up! This isn't funny, OK? Snap to it! Aww, open your eyes. Please? Not like this... *sniff* *sniff*
Corrin: Oh dear.
Keaton: YOU! You did this, didn't you? You were tricking us the whole time!
Corrin: No! That's not true. We had nothing to do with this!
Keaton: Lies! You'll die for this. ALL OF YOU!

Kaze: Lord/Lady Corrin! Are you OK?
Keaton: Gah! Get out of my way! This is between me and him/her.

Kaze: Urgh...
Corrin: Kaze!
Kaze: I don't think we can talk our way out of this one, Lord/Lady Corrin. We're going to sustain heavy losses if we don't fight back.
Keaton: I knew I shouldn't have trusted humans. None of you are leaving this place alive!
Kaze: Quickly, Lord/Lady Corrin! We need to take action one way or another.
Corrin: Argh! I guess we have no choice... Please forgive us, wolfskin!

@Boss 
Keaton: Now I'll take your life in exchange for my friend's. Rawr!

Keaton: Ugh... Why did you have to come here...

@End 
Corrin: We owe the wolfskin an apology. As meaningless as they may believe it to be... We can't undo what happened here today.
Kaze: An apology may be in order, but we're not at fault here. Please don't be too hard on yourself about all of this.
Corrin: I don't know. I'll never be able to fully forgive myself. I suppose it's just another burden I'll carry until the end.
Kaze: Perhaps it's a burden I can help you carry, milord/milady.

Kaze: Would you allow me to serve you?
Corrin: To...serve me? What do you mean?
Kaze: Ah, pardon me. Of course you wouldn't be familiar with Hoshidan tradition. It is expected that the most skilled elite soldiers will eventually choose a liege. As you're aware, Subaki and Hana serve Lady Sakura. Hinata and Oboro support Lord Takumi. Lady Hinoka counts on Azama and Setsuna as her retainers. And Kagero and my older brother Saizo work directly for Lord Ryoma.
Corrin: Yes, of course. I suppose I'm the only one left for you. Sorry about that.
Kaze: On the contrary. I feel blessed that I've remained unattached. Because now I can pledge my loyalty to you.
Corrin: Kaze, are you sure?
Kaze: Yes. I've seen you make tough but necesary decisions in the face of danger. I'm confident that you're the right leader for our group in this time of crisis. Besides, I've done something to you that can never be forgiven...
Corrin: How could you possibly? I don't know what you're talking about.
Kaze: Lord/Lady Corrin, allow me to explain. When I was much younger—
Corrin: Whoah, what's happening? I think it's a landslide! Watch out!

Corrin: Kaze! You have to let go of me! We'll both fall if you don't!
Kaze: Ungh...never! I couldn't live with myself. I already owe you my life...I'm the reason you were kidnapped as a child!
Corrin: That can't be true!
Kaze: It is. I was traveling with you that day, and I saw an unusual Nohrain troop presence. If I had only said something... But I was young... I didn't know the risk they posed. I could have prevented everything!
Corrin: You were a child! You couldn't have known. It's not your fault!
Kaze: I wish you were right. But I was raised in a family of ninja. I should have known better. I owe you a lifetime of service. But perhaps sacrificing myself will do.
Corrin: Kaze, no! Don't do anything foolish!
Hinoka: Corrin! Kaze! Hold on!
Corrin: Over here, Hinoka. Please help!
Hinoka: I'm coming!
Corrin: Agh...the ground is moving again!
Kaze: It has been a pleasure serving you, Lord/Lady Corrin. Lady Hinoka! You know what you have to do. Haaa!
Corrin: Whoa!
Hinoka: I've got you, Corrin!

Kaze: Please forgive me, Lord/Lady Corrin. I am only doing what is necessary.
Corrin: NO! Kaze!
Hinoka: I...I couldn't save him! What just happened?!
Corrin: I can't belive it... Kaze, why? WHY?!

Ryoma: Well, we've reached the summit. How are you doing, Corrin?
Corrin: We...we lost Kaze. I still can't believe it.
Ryoma: Yes. Another tragedy among countless tragedies we've witness of late. ... Look, Corrin. Can you see the sun breaking over the horizon?
Corrin: Yes...I suppose I can.
Ryoma: They say the sun never shines in Nohr, but we can see that that's not true. Perhaps it's small comfort, but I take this as a good omen.
Corrin: It is warm here. The same kind of warmth I felt walking the streets of Hoshido. Perhaps Kaze's spirit lives on in another world, watching over us.
Ryoma: Anything is possible, Corrin.
Corrin: Thank you for saving me, Kaze. I promise that you won't have died in vain. rest in peace, friend...

^locked 
Kaze: I'll always be at your side—especially at times like this.
Corrin: Thank you, Kaze. Your words mean a lot to me.

Corrin: Whoah, what's happening? I think it's a landslide! Watch out!

Corrin: Kaze! You have to let go of me! We'll both fall if you don't!
Kaze: Never milord/milady! I won't let you die!

Kaze: Hrrrgh! I can't hold this much longer... Hmm, is that what I think it is? Milord/Milady! I'm going to try something! Please hold tight!
Corrin: What?!
Kaze: Hah!
Corrin: WHOA!
Kaze: Are you all right, Lord/Lady Corrin?
Corrin: Yes...I think I am. Thanks to you. What WAS that?
Kaze: I...I don't know. I didn't know what would happen...but I'm afraid I didn't have many options.
Corrin: I can't say I'm disappointed, but you should have let me go and saved yourself.
Kaze: Nonsense. If anything, I was prepared to sacrifice myself. Hoshido needs you, Lord/Lady Corrin.
Corrin: Well...thank you.
Azura: Are you two OK? I heard what sounded like another explosion.
Corrin: Yes, we're fine Azura. Kaze managed to save us both.
Azura: Oh, thank goodness. I must admit, I feared the worst. Even though we're out of danger for now, it would be wise to stay alert.

Ryoma: Well, we've reached the summit. How are you doing, Corrin?
Corrin: I'm still upset about what happened with the wolfskin. Not to mention the fact that Kaze and I just nearly died.
Ryoma: Yes. This clash with the wolfskin is just another tragedy in a long line. ... Look, Corrin. Can you see the sun breaking over the horizon?
Corrin: Yes...I suppose I can.
Ryoma: They say the sun never shines in Nohr, but we can see that that's not true. Perhaps it's small comfort, but I take this as a good omen.
Corrin: It is warm here. The same kind of warmth I felt walking the streets of Hoshido. I hope someday, both Hoshido and Nohr can share this kind of warmth.
Ryoma: Anything is possible, Corrin.
^end

@Dialogue 
Lilith: Lady Corrin, could I have a moment of your time? There's a familiar face here to see you.

Felicia: Lady Corrin! I'm so glad you're safe! When I'd heard you'd gone missing I couldn't think about anything else! I've been tracking you down ever since, through the astral whosits! It wasn't easy, but I made it here and I want to fight!

Jakob: Lord Corrin, it's truly splendid to see you are doing well! When word reached us that you had gone missing, I could not rest. Tracking nobles across dimensional barriers was a new item for my résumé... But I am undoubtedly richer for it. Now that I am here, I would like to fight at your side.@Intro 
Corrin: Xander. Withdraw your troops.
Xander: Corrin... Don't tell me you're siding with Hoshido.
Corrin: I'm afraid so. I've made up my mind---I stand with Hoshido.
Xander: I fear the Hoshidans might try to brainwash you... I am well aware of your Hoshidan lineage. It is true that we lack common blood. But still, we've treated you as kin since the very day you arrived in Nohr. No matter what anyone says, you are my brother/sister, Corrin. I know that Camilla, Leo, and Elise feel the same way. And Father will forgive you. I know it. You are of Nohr! Return to us, Corrin!
Corrin: I'm sorry. I can't go back. King Garon is a coward and a liar. I've witnessed enough of his destruction. Causing an explosion in a crowded city center with no regard for innocent life. That's the action of a madman.

Corrin: Tell me. If King Garon thinks of me as family... how could he have orchestrated this attack? I could have easily been killed along with Queen Mikoto. The truth is that I was just a pawn. Collateral damage. King Garon was willing to sacrifice my life in pursuit of his agenda. Face it, Xander---Garon is no longer human. He's pure evil.
Xander: Father... evil? How could you say that, little prince/princess?
Corrin: Xander, please... Join me! Join me and help put an end to his cruelty!
Xander: Corrin...

Xander: There's my answer, traitor.
Corrin: Traitor? Brother, wait!
Xander: Enough. I never thought you would turn your back on your kingdom and your family. Your betrayal will not be forgiven. You want to side with Hoshido? Fine. Over my dead body!
Corrin: Xander!
Xander: You have been deceived, Brother/Sister. They've clearly brainwashed you. I will not rest until I've returned you to your senses. Get up! Get up and return to Nohr with me. Surely there's some part of you that still remembers your true family.
Corrin: Brother, my mind is made up.
Xander: If that's the case... I will end this quickly.
Corrin: Wait!

Ryoma: Just try it, Nohrian scum.
Corrin: Ryoma! Please, we can settle this peacefully.
Ryoma: What's wrong, Corrin? Lost your focus? Tossing your sword aside and dying as a martyr won't do us any good.
Xander: Fiend! If you seek to take my brother/sister from me, I won't go easy on you.
Ryoma: Oh, why don't you spare ME the chitchat? Shut up and attack, if you dare!
Xander: A splendid idea. I've yearned to introduce you to a dear friend of mine---the dark blade Siegfried! Camilla, Leo, Elise! Are you ready?
Camilla: Darling, I was born ready. Let's kill them all quickly so that we can make it in time for Corrin's nap.
Leo: You're coming with us---that's all there is to it. Understood, Corrin?
Elise: Yay! We're gonna take Corrin back home!
Ryoma: Please. Corrin has made his/her choice. All that remains is to spill your blood and wipe my divine sword clean. Hinoka, Takumi, Sakura! Steel yourselves.
Hinoka: I'll be your shield, Corrin. They won't kidnap you again.
Takumi: Stupid Nohrian jerks! I'll kill all of you!
Sakura: I'm r-ready. I won't let them hurt you, Corrin.
Xander: Very well. All forces, attack!
Ryoma: Warriors of Hoshido... prepare for battle!

#avatar-M 
Felicia: I made it Lord Corrin! Is everything OK?
Corrin: Felicia? No, we're far from OK. But there's no time to explain. Your timing is terrible. What are you doing here now?
Felicia: How can you say that? I've been looking for you all this time! Anyway, I'm here now, and I'll stand by your side!

#avatar-F
Jakob: Pardon me, Lady Corrin. It took me a while to track you down. Is everything OK?
Corrin: Jakob? No, we're far from OK. But there's no time to explain right now. Your timing is terrible. What are you doing here now?
Jakob: I apologize. I've been searching for you this whole time. Regardless, I'm here now, and I'll stand by your side.

@Boss 
Xander: What foolishness. I will not tolerate traitors in our midst!

Xander: How is this possible? We must retreat! This isn't over, Corrin...

%Corrin,Xander 
Xander: So, you've chosen to take up arms against your own brother... It's not too late for all to be forgiven. Come back to Nohr with us.
Corrin: I can't do that, Xander. I've made my decision, and I stand by it.
Xander: How unfortunate. You leave me no choice. If force is the only thing that can make you listen to reason, so be it!
Corrin: Xander!

@Boss 
Camilla: Corrin belongs to us!

Camilla: How could you let this happen, Corrin?

%Corrin,Camilla 
Camilla: Tell me this isn't really happening, my sweet Corrin! Won't you come back to Nohr with us?
Corrin: Gods... Camilla... I wish it didn't have to be this way.
Camilla: I can't believe it.

@Boss 
Leo: If you attack, I will offer no mercy. I hope you are prepared to die.

Leo: You're stronger than I expected...

%Corrin,Leo 
Leo: What are you doing, Brother/Sister? There's still time to change your mind. I'll even smooth things over with Father. Please, come back to us.
Corrin: I'm so sorry, Leo. But I can't go back. Father is dead to me.
Leo: Do you even hear what you're saying? This is madness! I suppose I'll just have to knock some sense into you. Know that I take no joy in this...

@Boss 
Elise: I want my brother/sister back!

Elise: I never thought this could happen...

%Corrin,Elise 
Elise: Why are you doing this, Corrin? I don't want to fight you! Why don't you stop all this and come home with us?
Corrin: I'm so sorry, Elise. The last thing I want to do is fight you. I know it's hard to understand, but this is the only way!
Elise: Grr! Stop being so stubborn!

@End 
Corrin: Is this really our future? A lifetime of conflict with Nohr?
Azura: Corrin... I can understand why you are reluctant to fight. If it would make you feel better, you can leave the fighting to me and Ryoma.
Corrin: No. Burying my head in the sand won't change the reality of the situation. I will stand with you, and the rest of Hoshido.
Azura: Very well.
Corrin: I know this is the right choice. Even if it's the hardest one I've ever had to make. I have to believe this is the path that will eventually lead to peace.@Intro 
Corrin: *sigh* It's no use. I just can't fall asleep. First the incident in Cheve, now the hunt for those singers... The thought of attacking innocent people hurts my heart. I wonder if I did the right thing. Is it even possible to change things from the inside? Sometimes I wonder if siding with Nohr...was a mistake. Should I have sided with Hoshido? Helped them take down Father? But no, Xander and the rest... I love them so much. I could never betray them. *SIGH* I feel like I don't know anything anymore. Hm? Is that...Azura?
Azura: ...
Corrin: That's Azura all right... I wonder where she's going. Maybe I'll feel better if I talk to her about our decision to side with Nohr. She's the only one in the world who's going through something similar. Fighting the Hoshidan siblings she grew up with... It can't be easy. I bet it would benefit both of us to talk all this through.

Corrin: That's weird... Where did she go? Into the forest, maybe...? Th-that song! It's just like the one that performer sang in Nestra. The one that cursed Father... The mysterious singer and Azura... Could they be the same person? N-no, it can't be. That's insane. I need to find Azura right now. There she is... Azura!

Corrin: Huh?! She's walking into the lake... Is she taking a bath? No, it can't be that. She's fully clothed... What is she—

Corrin: She's gone! Gods, she's not coming back up... Don't tell me she's... Azura? Azura! AZURA!!

Azura: Tell me... Why are you here?

Corrin: Azura? Wh-what happened? I dive onto the lake to save you...and then...
Azura: You shouldn't be here, Corrin. Go back while you still can.
Corrin: Go back? What do you mean? Where are we?

Azura: Corrin, watch out!

Corrin: Who is this person? Why is he attacking me?!
Azura: This is bad... We need to get out of here, Corrin! That thing attacking you may look human, but it's only a monster now. It feels no emotion. It can't love or even communicate. A soulless killing machine. If you get to close, it will surely destroy you.
Corrin: But Azura... There's nowhere to run!

Azura: What?! Oh no... The path has closed. That means we'll have to fight our way through. Don't die on me, Corrin. Not before I can tell you the truth.

Gunter: Milord/Milady!
Corrin: HUH?! It...it can't be... GUNTER!! Is that really you? You're not a ghost...are you?
Gunter: It is I, milord/milady, in the flesh. And I won't tolerate being called a ghost. I saw that the two of you were in trouble, so I've come to help.
Corrin: I'm so happy to see you alive and well, Gunter! It's unbelievable! I don't understand, though... Why are you here?

Gunter: We can discuss all that later. First we must dispatch these cretins!
Corrin: Valid point! I'm so glad to have you fighting by my side again, Gunter...

@End 
Corrin: Gunter!! I can't believe it's really you! Where have you been all this time?
Gunter: As you may recall, Hans knocked me into the Bottomless Canyon. I hit solid ground, but it wasn't a canyon floor. When I came to, I was here. I barely had time to find my bearings before those monsters started attacking me. I tried to fight, then to run. I almost died a number of times, but then Lady Azura—
Corrin: You know Azura?!
Azura: He does. When I felt lost and lonely in Hoshido, I often found my way here. In this abyss I tried to derive some clue as to how I could achieve peace for the world. During one of my visits, I found Gunter here, on the brink of death.
Gunter: Lady Azura taught me how to hide here—where I could go to stay safe. I would be dead right now if it weren't for her kindness. I am forever in her debt.
Azura: Thank you, Gunter, but I don't deserve your praise. After I left you that day, I was captured by Hoshidan soldiers. I wasn't able to come back for you until now. I'm so sorry I left you alone...
Gunter: Think nothing of it, milord/milady. I'm just happy to see you again.
Corrin: So, where exactly are we? Gunter got here by falling in the Bottomless Canyon... But we came here by diving into the lake. It sounds mad... Is that even possible?
Azura: It is. We are no longer in Nohr, but we are not in Hoshido either. It is a land separate from both. Ever near, but hidden to all.
Corrin: A hidden land.
Azura: Yes. Time flows differently here than it does in the world we came from. There's something else... You must never speak of this place in the outside world. There exists a curse...if you speak of this land outside of it, you'll vanish.
Corrin: Vanish?!
Azura: Don't worry. So long as you don't talk about it, you'll be fine. We should head back. Please heed my warning and keep this place a secret. Both of you, follow me.

Azura: Listen carefully. This place leads to the Bottomless Canyon in the other world. If we jump here, we can return to the world from whence we came.
Corrin: Wow, so this is how you go back and forth between worlds. Amazing.
Azura: Hm? Oh no, it's actually not. I always travel through water.
Corrin: Oh. Then why don't we just go back the same way we came?
Azura: We can't. You and I are the only ones who can use water to travel between worlds. This is the only way to bring Gunter back with us. I realized that last time I was here. I tried to take Gunter with me but was unable to.
Corrin: Just the two of us can travel through water? But why? Why us?
Azura: That's... ... I'm sorry, but that's not something I can talk about right now. We need to get back to the other world now, before those things attack again.

Corrin: Huh? Azura?! Wow! She didn't even hesitate...
Gunter: Then let us show the same strength of will. I've got your back, milord/milady.
Corrin: So, um...basically...you're saying you want me to jump first? ... This may very well be the most frightening thing I've ever done. But I have no choice... ... OK, I'm going to do it... Deep breaths... HERE GOES NOTHING!

Corrin: ...

Azura: Welcome back, Corrin.
Corrin: I'm back already? Incredible. Wait a minute... Where's Gunter?! H-he didn't get lost or something did he?!
Azura: Not to worry. If he jumped off the cliff as instructed, he'll show up here eventually.

Azura: As I said, time flows differently there. That's why there´s a lag between when someone jumps and when they arrive back. While we wait for him to appear...there's something I need to tell you.
Corrin: Oh? What's that?
Azura: I've heard you say numerous times that you'd stop at nothing to end this war. If that's true, there's something you must do. It won't be easy though... I'm afraid if we're ever to obtain peace, you must...dethrone King Garon.
Corrin: Dethrone Father? Are you mad?!
Azura: I'm sorry, but it's the only way. All he does is spread hate and evil. He's a cruel and heartless man, even to his own children. It's despicable.
Corrin: Sadly, I can't disagree with any of that. But, Azura... He's still my father, and the father of my siblings. Must we shame and defeat him?
Azura: I wished to shield you from this knowledge, Corrin, but it's time you knew. The man you call Father...is not King Garon. Not anymore. The man masquerading as your father is not of this world. He's being controlled by something—by a demon of some sort. I know that's a lot to swallow, but I think I can prove it to you......with this.

Corrin: What...is it?
Azura: This is a crystal from the other world we just returned from. It has the power to reveal the truth. It takes an incredibly gifted mage, like Leo, to access its power at will. ...Or someone with highly potent dragon blood in their veins. Someone like you. Now, if you would, go ahead and touch the crystal.
Corrin: Um, OK...

Azura: Now you know the truth about King Garon. Are you OK, Corrin?
Corrin: ...I'll be fine. Azura... Can I ask you something? Is there really no way we can save him? No way at all?
Azura: Sadly, it's far too late for that. His soul has been corrupted beyond salvaging. The best we can do for him is to defeat him and release his soul to the next world. I did all I could to help...when I sang that song at the theatre in Cyrkensia.

Corrin: So it was you...
Azura: It was. That song I sang has a mysterious power. I thought perhaps I could use it to turn Garon back to normal. ...It didn't work. That's when I realized he was too far gone to save. Worse than my failure is the fact that I endangered all those innocent singers. It's my fault they're being hunted. I'll never forgive myself for that.
Corrin: You're not the only one who has suffered failures on the path to peace. I wanted so badly to end this war without sacrificing any lives. And yet...in Cheve, I was unable to stop the murder of all those innocent people.
Azura: Corrin...
Corrin: You're right. I see that now. we must stop Father so such things never happen again. I can't do it without Xander and the others, though. They need to know. Ugh, but how do I explain all this to them? Will they even believe me? I don't know where to begin, and what's worse, I can't mention that other world!
Azura: Hmm... There might be a way to show them, but it's risky...
Corrin: What do you have in mind?
Azura: We'll have to conquer Hoshido. Win the war in King Garon's name. Once we've won, all we have to do is get Garon to sit on the Hoshidan throne.
Corrin: That's right. I remember Mother saying something about that throne. She said those who sit on it regain their true form and mind.
Azura: Precisely. With that crystal, I was able to show you the truth. But with that throne, we could reveal the truth to our siblings too. Unfortunately, to make this plan work, we'll have to keep following Garon's orders. And to conquer Hoshido, we'll have to keep fighting your Hoshidan siblings. It won't be easy for you, Corrin... For that, I'm sorry.
Corrin: ... My happiness is a small price to pay for the good of the whole world. I will continue to fight for Nohr and follow my father's every command. If I must sacrifice my soul and walk the path of evil to end this war, so be it. Even if no one understands why I'm doing this... Even if they grow to hate me...
Azura: If that's the path you choose to walk, I shall walk it with you. I am ever at your service, Corrin. Together we will claim victory for Nohr.
Gunter: Lord/Lady Corrin! Lady Azura!
Corrin: Welcome back, Gunter.
Azura: I'm so glad you made it back safely. Well, no time to spare. Let's hurry back and rejoin the others. King Garon will grow suspicious if we're gone too long...@Intro 
Corrin: ...I know what I must do. Ryoma! Withdraw your troops.
Ryoma: You don't mean that, Corrin. You cannot possibly!
Corrin: I'm sorry, Ryoma, but I will not fight for Hoshido.
Ryoma: How can you say that?! Open your eyes! Can you not see how vile those Nohrians are? They're hateful fiends who wish to trample Hoshido! They killed our mother!
Corrin: It's not that simple... I know what the Nohrian kingdom has done to Hoshido is unforgivable... And I know now that these are not my brothers and sisters by birth... Yet even still, I must side with them. My heart won’t allow me to do otherwise.
Ryoma: How can you fight alongside those monsters after what they did?! Now that you know of their sins, how can you possibly justify joining them? You are a prince/princess of Hoshido! You are my brother/sister! They are to blame for you not growing up with us as you were meant to. Do you truly mean to fight for those who stole you away?
Corrin: Ryoma... My sorrow is beyond words. Still, I simply will not abandon the only family I have ever known.
Ryoma: ...
Xander: You did the right thing, Corrin. As you now know, you do not share the same bloodline as the rest of us. But it matters not. I have regarded you as family since I first laid eyes on you. I cannot express what it means to me that you've chosen to return to us. Father will be pleased with your decision as well.
Ryoma: Are you certain of that, Prince Xander? Surely you must know of King Garon's attempt to murder Corrin!
Xander: Explain yourself. Swiftly.
Ryoma: There was an attack in our capital's square. The explosion came from Corrin's sword. If my mother hadn't sacrificed herself, he/she would be dead now. If King Garon truly cares, why did he risk Corrin's life just to hurt Hoshido?
Xander: Is this true, Corrin?
Corrin: ...It is. But I still need to hear Father's side of the story. That's why I must return home right away. I must know the truth of this tragedy.
Ryoma: I'm afraid that is not an option.
Corrin: Arrrgh!
Ryoma: Everyone! Attack Corrin! I will not allow you to return to Nohr until we've settled this on the battlefield.
Corrin: Ryoma! Please don't do this!
Ryoma: If you are looking for forgiveness, you'll find none here. So you wish to side with Nohr? Then you must first defeat your true brother. It is your birthright to fight on my side. I cannot forgive the choice you've made. How dare you use the sacred Yato blade against your own kingdom! Perhaps it is a blessing Mother isn't here to witness your betrayal.
Xander: Stand down, prince of Hoshido. I will not allow you to cause any further harm to Corrin.
Ryoma: Order me around once more, and Nohr will lose two princes/a prince as well as a princess today. I will do what I must to awaken my brother/sister from the spell that binds him/her. You vile Nohrians have brainwashed him/her, and I will not rest until he/she is free!
Xander: More false accusations. You know very well he/she chose this of his/her own free will. No matter the blood that courses through his/her veins, we are his/her true family. That will never change.
Ryoma: I will not stand here and listen to your lies! Your heart knows only deceit and betrayal. Nohrians are notorious for their cruel and cowardly methods. This is no different. But enough of your foolish words. We must resolve this with blades.
Xander: So be it. I always knew it would come to this. The crown prince of Nohr clashing blades with Hoshido’s heir. It’s almost poetic.
Corrin: Please, stop this madness! Both of you! Xander, I beg of you. Let it go for now. We must return to Nohr right away. There has been enough senseless death on this day...
Leo: I'm afraid retreat is not an option.
Corrin: Leo? Why would you say that?
Leo: If we retreat, they'll think we fear them. Or worse, that we coerced you into joining us. This is our chance to prove beyond a doubt that you chose us of your own volition. We have no choice but to stand our ground and fight!
Camilla: I agree with Leo. After all, we've done nothing wrong. Why should we flee? You're one of us, Corrin. that's worth fighting for!
Elise: Don't worry, Corrin! Everything's OK now that we're together again! If we all try our hardest, there's no way we can lose!
Corrin: Is that really what you want? Leo, Camilla, even Elise...
Ryoma: If you mean to fight, then FIGHT! Nohrian pawns. Soon you shall be a mere stain on my sacred blade, Raijinto. Hinoka! Takumi! Sakura! Are you ready?
Hinoka: Ready and waiting! Like I'd ever let them take Corrin away from us again.
Takumi: Show no mercy. Now is our chance to avenge Mother's death!
Sakura: I'll help too. I'll do my b-best! Please, Corrin, come back to us...
Xander: Fools, all of you. You have my pity. Sadly for you, my sacred blade, Siegfried, knows nothing of pity—only triumph. Camilla! Leo! Elise! prepare for battle!
Camilla: I swear to protect our dear Corrin no matter what!
Leo: Failure is no option. Let's show those scoundrels what it means to be a family!
Elise: I'm ready too! Let's finish this quickly, though. I'm starving!
Ryoma: This is it... ATTACK!
Xander: It begins!

@Boss 
Sakura: I don't care what happens to me, but I w-won't let you hurt the people I love!

Sakura: I don't...understand...

Hinoka: I won't rest until Corrin returns home. I've been training for this day!

Hinoka: How could this happen?! What have I been fighting for all this time...?

Takumi: Prepare to pay for what you monsters have done. This is for Mother!

Takumi: Gah! You may not have honor, but you certainly have skill. This isn't over...

Ryoma: I will not allow a filthy Nohrian to sully my honor!

Ryoma: Damn! I'll have to withdraw for now... This isn't over, Corrin!

Yukimura: This battle is truly lamentable. It would have broken Lady Mikoto's heart to watch these events unfold...

Yukimura: I must withdraw... Forgive me, Lady Mikoto...

%Corrin,Sakura 
Sakura: Corrin! Are you r-really gonna fight me right now? What did I ever do to you? All I wanted was to l-love you!
Corrin: Sakura, I'm so sorry for all this. You didn't do anything wrong, I promise. It's difficult to explain, but I just need you to...um, take a little nap right now.
Sakura: Brother/Sister, no...

%Corrin,Hinoka 
Hinoka: What exactly do you think you're doing, Corrin?! Betraying us for Nohr... It just can't be true! They must have tricked you somehow, right?
Corrin: I'm sorry, Hinoka. I just... I can't abandon the ones I loved all these years. It's as simple as that.
Hinoka: Corrin... Say it isn't so...

%Corrin,Takumi 
Takumi: Hmph. I knew it would come to this. From the moment we met, I knew you couldn't be trusted. And I was right.
Corrin: Takumi... Please, let me explain.
Takumi: I have no time for your empty words. Ryoma and the others were fools. I knew trusting a Nohrian would only lead to death and heartbreak. But I am not Ryoma, nor my siblings. I won't make that same mistake. I shall take great joy in slaying you here and now like the traitor you are!

%Corrin,Ryoma 
Ryoma: Corrin! Do not allow them to fool you a moment longer. There's still time... Come back to your true family, where you belong!
Corrin: I'm sorry, Ryoma. I'm afraid that's not possible. I've made up my mind. I'm staying with Xander and my Nohrian siblings.
Ryoma: Very well. Although it pains me, I see you cannot be dissuaded. In that case, I have no choice but to drag you back to Hoshido by force!
Corrin: Ryoma! Don't do this!!

%Corrin,Yukimura 
Yukimura: So, here we are. You have come back to us, but with a blade in hand. I suppose it's safe to surmise you have no intention of returning to Hoshido?
Corrin: You are correct. Nohr is my home. It's where I belong.
Yukimura: How very upsetting. If Lady Mikoto were here to see this, it would break her heart. Then again, she may just have smiled and said, "It's his/her path to choose."
Corrin: Yukimura...
Yukimura: But such talk is pointless, for our dear queen has left this realm. As for myself, I am above all a tactician for the honorable Hoshidan army. As such, I am obligated to prevent you from returning to Nohr!

@End 
Corrin: Ryoma… Everyone… Please find it in your hearts to forgive me. I know that a prince/princess of Hoshido siding with Nohr seems like the ultimate betrayal. But I swear on my honor…I will end this war, for all of us. For Nohr and Hoshido—for you and me. I promise you that. Until then…farewell.
Azura: Corrin!
Corrin: Azura?
Azura: So...you're really leaving us?
Corrin: Azura, I...
Azura: Are you sure about this, Corrin? Once done, it cannot be undone.
Corrin: Yes, I know. But it's the only way. These people, I've loved them for as long as I can remember. They are my family.
Azura: I see. If that is the path you have chosen, I will not try to stop you. I am certain we will meet again. But for now... I suppose this is good-bye.
Corrin: Azura...@Dialogue
Xander: Corrin, you're alive! They haven't harmed you, have they?
Corrin: Xander! I'm fine. But... why are you invading Hoshido?!
Xander: Father say's it's time to show our true strength. Join us, and we'll end this quickly. If we conquer Hoshido here and now, we can avoid unnecessary bloodshed.
Corrin: Xander... I...I need a minute.
Ryoma: Be careful, Corrin. That man is a Nohrian commander!
Corrin: Ryoma...
Camilla: Corrin! I was so worried about you. Don't ever wander away from me again!
Leo: I'm glad you're OK, Corrin. You must have the devil's own luck!
Elise: Yaaay! We got our brother/sister back!
Hinoka: Nohrian scum! First you kidnap him/her, now you lied to him/her?! Corrin is MY brother/sister, not yours!
Camilla: You are mistaken. Corrin is my sweet little brother/sister. You may not have him/her.
Ryoma: Don't be fooled by their words. You belong with your true family in Hoshido!
Xander: We have loved you and raised you since you were a child. Come home, little prince/princess. We can live as a family once more!
Ryoma: Come home to Hoshido, Corrin!
Xander: No, Corrin! Nohr is your home!

@Cutscene 
Ryoma: This way!

Sakura: B-Big brother/sister?
Elise: He's/She's my brother/sister!

Xander: We're your family.

@Dialogue 
Corrin: My family...