@Opening 
After surviving many hardships, Roy set foot on Bern’s soil at last.

Guinevere guided Roy toward the Temple of Seals, but in their path stood Bern’s main forces, the strongest army on the continent, led by Murdock, the leader of the Three Dragon Lords.

Etruria and Bern, the two leading forces on the continent, clashing in all-out war. The longest and bloodiest day yet to be seen by Elibe was about to begin…

@Intro 
Soldier: All troops are at their posts and ready for battle, Lord Murdock.
Murdock: Good.
Murdock: Galle. So it begins.
Galle: Yes, my lord. We are prepared.
Murdock: Your squad will be the key to winning this battle. Understood?
Galle: Of course, my lord. I will not let you down.
Murdock: Yes. We shall show them the power of Bern’s main forces. Still...that general from the Lycia Alliance Army made it this far.
Galle: General Roy?
Murdock: Yes, him. I wish to see how he fights...by going up against him in person.
 
Yoder: Ah, General Roy! I have found you at last.
Roy: Bishop Yoder! What brings you all the way from Etruria? Is something wrong?
Yoder: I did some research after receiving your letter. I have come to the conclusion that Bern has indeed resurrected the Dark Dragon!
Roy: Is that true!? ...But Hartmut defeated the Dark Dragon in the war. How could Bern have brought it back to life?
Yoder: Apparently, Hartmut did defeat the Dark Dragon, but he did not finish it off.
Roy: What!?
Yoder: Instead of killing it, he sealed it away in the mountains of Bern. And the sword he used to seal it was...
Roy: The Binding Blade?
Yoder: Oh, did you know?
Roy: Yes. I have done a little studying myself...
Yoder: Even if the Dark Dragon has been released, if we can obtain the Binding Blade, then we may be able to seal it again, or even kill it once and for all. That is the Church’s conclusion, and they sent me to ask for your assistance.
Roy: Do you know where the Dark Dragon is?
Yoder: Yes, that is my next point. As the the fire-breathing Dragons can change into human form, is highly possible that the Dark Dragon can as well. In fact, we have a suspect. There is a shaman called the Dark Priestess whom King Zephiel keeps at his side at all times.
Roy: The Dark Priestess...
Yoder: We have no solid evidence, but it is true that she appeared at around the same time that the other fire-breathing Dragons started to be seen.
Roy: ......
Yoder: Apparently, the Dragons sealed away their power in gems called Dragon Stones to change into human form so that they could adapt to this environment. In that case, it would not be surprising if the Dark Dragon was in the form of a human woman as well.
Roy: In any case, we have to go see her to confirm the truth.
Yoder: Yes. I shall accompany you.
Roy: You would fight alongside us? That would be most helpful!
Yoder: Also, take these. These are the Divine Weapons that the Church found on its own. I have instructions to give them to you.
Roy: Divine Weapons, too!?
Yoder: If the Dark Dragon has really been released, this would be the greatest danger mankind has faced since the Scouring!
Roy: Yes. We will face it with all our strength!

@Battle 
Galle: All right, let’s go! Crush them all. Leave none alive! Show the enemy the wrath of the Dragon Masters of Bern!

@Battle-Talk 
%Yoder,Saul
Saul: Ah, Bishop Yoder.
Yoder: Saul, it is good to see you are well. And thank you. The Church has been saved countless times because you and Dorothy fought alongside Roy.
Saul: ...If one such as I was to be of any help at all, then I am truly proud.
Yoder: Oh? It seems I have never seen you so...serious.
Saul: Bishop Yoder, even I am a priest. I have as much concern for the common good as anybody.
Yoder: I see. I am sorry. Then let us fight together, shall we?
 
@Yoder,Dorothy
Yoder: Dorothy. Have you been well?
Dorothy: Yes. It is good to see you again, Bishop Yoder.
Yoder: You are always so bright and full of energy. I’m sure God loves that part of you.
Dorothy: Do you think so...?
Yoder: Everyone who comes in contact with your pure heart has his own heart cleansed. Like me, for example. Even Saul. You should be proud of that.
Dorothy: Yes, Bishop Yoder!

@Boss-Talk 
%Zeiss,Galle
Zeiss: Sir Galle...
Galle: Zeiss. You seem well.
Zeiss: Sir Galle... Must we fight?
Galle: Yes. We must.
Zeiss: I... I don’t want to fight you! You’re the last person...
Galle: Zeiss! Don’t be a child!
Zeiss: Huh...!?
Galle: Did you have only so much resolve when you left Bern? Is that all the resolve you had when you decided to fight against Bern!?
Zeiss: No! My mind is...set... Even now, it hurts to point my blade toward Bern, my homeland... But I believed with my heart that the path I chose wasn’t a mistake...!
Galle: Then cast away your hesitation! Focus on crushing those who block the path that you have chosen. ...No matter who it is.
Zeiss: Sir Galle...
Galle: Zeiss... Were you not a knight of Bern?
Zeiss: ...Of course I am!
Galle: Good! When we meet next time, neither of us will speak. We will fight!
 
%Melady,Galle
Melady: Galle...
Galle: Melady...
Melady: Galle... I...
Galle: Don’t speak... You and I are both loyal knights. We both fight for whom we have pledged our loyalty to. That’s all.
Melady: ......
Galle: Melady... This is probably the end, so let me say this. Melady, I am truly grateful that I was able to meet you. We trained our skills together, and we fought alongside each other. Melady... The days I spent with you... Those were the happiest days of my life.
Melady: Me... Mine, too...
Galle: ...Goodbye, Melady... I always wish we had met in a more peaceful time.
Melady: Galle...
Melady: Wait...! Galle! Don’t go! Gaaaaaaaaaale!

@Boss 
Galle: I have no regrets… Zeiss… Take care…of Melady…

Murdock: Hm...you made it this far. I congratulate you. But can you defeat me?

Murdock: Gah...! You...are strong... Zephiel... My king... I cannot protect you...any further... Forgive me...!

%Roy,Murdock
Murdock: So! You are General Roy! I have always been looking forward to matching blades with you!

%Melady,Murdock
Murdock: Melady... I don’t want to fight you, but you stand here before me. It seems we have no choice. Come!

%Zeiss,Murdock
Murdock: You were one of Narshen’s troops... I heard the story from Galle. I do feel sorry for you, but you are currently an enemy. Come! We fight!

@End 
Elffin: Master Roy... There is a path leading underground.
Roy: Does that mean that the Binding Blade is in there?
Elffin: I don’t know... But I heard from a captive that two things are hidden inside the temple.
Roy: ! Does that mean that there’s another Divine Weapon?
Elffin: Possibly... Perhaps we should ask those from our army who are natives of Bern.
Roy: All right. I’ll check with them.
 
Elffin: Master Roy. This sword stuck in the altar...
Roy: This must be the Binding Blade.
Merlinus: Let’s see... ...I can’t seem to draw it from the stone.
Roy: It’s sealed. You have to use the Fire Emblem.
Merlinus: Use it? How?
Roy: Princess Guinevere said that you just have to stick it into the opening in the handle...
Roy: Whoa! What the...
Merlinus: The blade is glowing!
Roy: Now I should be able to draw it... ...!
Roy: ...What...is this...? This is the Binding Blade’s... No, Hartmut’s... Memories...?
Roy: Who was that? What’s this feeling... It’s very...
Merlinus: Master Roy? Are you all right?
Roy: Yeah... I’m fine. So this is Hartmut’s sword, the Binding Blade... Am I allowed to use it...?
Elffin: It has been said for centuries that the best swords choose their owners. The sword is in your hands now. You were chosen by it.
Roy: But it’s only coincidence that I’m holding it...
Elffin: What we may think of as being coincidental... Even that might be part of our fate.
Roy: ......
Merlinus: Anyway, now that we have the Binding Blade, all we need to do is head for the castle. We must hurry!
Roy: ...Right! We have to defeat Zephiel!
@Opening 
After defeating Bern’s remaining troops, Roy entered the Dragon Temple.

He searched for the Dark Priestess to prevent the same tragedy as the Scouring from happening again.

In the temple, Roy was to learn the truth behind the legends that he had always heard. What Roy was about to hear was completely different that what he had always believed to be true…

@Intro 
Roy: This is the Dragon Temple... The air is strange. Did the Eight Heroes fight under such pressure as well?
Jahn: You would stand before us again, humans?
Roy: What... Who are you! When did you...
Jahn: I am Jahn. I am the last remaining Dragon of the Dragon Temple.
Roy: The last Dragon? You seem...different from the other Dragons... Are you the Dark Dragon?
Jahn: The Dragons which you have been fighting are War Dragons who know nothing but battle. And the Dark Dragon is something completely different from me. I am a pure, full-blooded Dragon that fought you humans in the faraway past.
Roy: Different? Wasn’t the Dark Dragon supposed to be the leader of the Dragons?
Jahn: The Dark Dragon is an ‘object’ meant to bring hope to us Dragons again. It is no leader.
Roy: What? Then what is the Dark Dragon?
Jahn: It seems you have much to learn.
Roy: Tell us! What is the Dark Dragon? We...I have to fully understand my enemy before I fight!
Jahn: Well... I have no reason to tell you. And, yet, I have no reason not to tell you. What should I do?
Roy: ......
Jahn: ...Very well. I shall test you to see if you are worthy of hearing the truth. I am deep inside the temple. Fend off our attacks and come to me. Then I shall explain everything.
Roy: But you’re right here!
Jahn: What you are seeing is just an illusion. If you wish to know the truth, then come to me. If you prove yourself worthy of my time, then you shall hear it all...

@Battle 
Roy: You... Are you real this time? Or...
Jahn: This is but the entrace. You have a long way yet to reach me. Still, you seem to be strong enough not to die immediately.
Roy: Of course. We’ve gone through many hardships.
Jahn: So I see. Very well, I shall tell you a little about the Dark Dragon. The Dark Dragon is not the leader of the Dragons as you thought. The Dark Dragon was created by us to bring us victory.
Roy: Created...? So it wasn’t the Dark Dragon that was making more Dragons...
Jahn: The Dragons you speak of are correctly referred to as War Dragons. As I said before, they are different from pure Dragons such as I. Indeed, the War Dragons are created by the Dark Dragon. And the Dark Dragon was created out of the Divine Dragon, the most powerful of our kind.
Roy: Created out of the Divine Dragon? Then the Dark Dragon is actually... The Divine Dragon agreed to become the Dark Dragon?
Jahn: Agreed? No. We destroyed its soul so that it would follow our leader’s every command.
Roy: What...!
Jahn: We desperately needed the power of the Divine Dragon. Our entire species was at stake.
Roy: You needed the power of the Divine Dragon... But...why did you have to destroy its soul!?
Jahn: Why, you ask. If you want that answer, then seek me out again. I shall witness more of your power...
 
Jahn: Not bad, not bad at all. I wonder how far you will come.
Roy: I want you to go on with your story.
Jahn: ...No matter how much we fought, you humans just seemed to multiply endlessly. Eventually, we began to lose because of the humans’ sheer numbers. Therefore, we created the Dark Dragon that would create War Dragons.
Roy: War Dragons... Dragons meant only for battle.
Jahn: That is correct. However, the Divine Dragons did not agree with us. They said that that would be defying the laws of nature. As we were discussing how we could persuade the Divine Dragons to help us, they suddenly disappeared.
Roy: Why?
Jahn: Most likely, they left us to prevent us from taking advantage of them. We were never able to find the Divine Dragons, but fortunately, we were able to capture one.
Roy: And that became the Dark Dragon?
Jahn: Yes. That Divine Dragon, Idunn, became the Dark Dragon. Apparently, she had hestitation in escaping with the rest of the Divine Dragons because she feared that we would go into conflict with each other. Hesitation...such nonsense is only for humans. We Dragons have no need for it.
Roy: Then that hesitation worked against her...
Jahn: When the Divine Dragons disappeared, she refused to go with them. That was when we were fortunate enough to find her. Idunn was still young, but she had no problems in fulfulling our purposes, except for one... Her heart was not with us. She would not follow our commands.
Roy: So you destroyed her heart...
Jahn: Exactly. We destroyed her soul to make her follow our every command.
Roy: That’s...terrible.
Jahn: That is enough for now. If you want to know more, then show me more of your power!
 
Jahn: You have taken another step forward. But the way is still long.
Roy: We shall reach you!
Jahn: You have a stout heart. What do you wish to hear next?
Roy: You succeeded in creating the Dark Dragon. The Dark Dragon produced War Dragons. Then why did you lose to the humans?
Jahn: Indeed, the Dark Dragon continued to produce War Dragons to use in the battlefield. We were able to turn the tables on the humans.
Roy: ......
Jahn: However, the humans soon found out about the Dark Dragon. They concluded that their numbers alone would not be enough to defeat us. Therefore, they put their efforts into constructing powerful weapons that would pierce our scales. They are what you call the Divine Weapons.
Roy: That part is the same as our legends...
Jahn: The most powerful and potent were chosen out of the humans to wield their newly crafted weapons. They came and charged this temple. However, when the immense power of the weapons and our power clashed near Bern, something unexpected happened.
Roy: What happened?
Jahn: The laws of nature started to collapse. Snow began to fall in mid summer. Stars shone in the middle of day...
Roy: Is that the Ending Winter? I heard that that happened because you Dragons unleashed too much power into the world...
Jahn: Is that how your legends go?
Roy: The power in the Divine Weapons was then used to restore order to the world. That’s what our legends say.
Jahn: So, all the bad things that happened are our fault? I would have expected you humans to think like that. However, the truth is what I said.
Roy: Then... The Divine Weapons were sealed away so as to not let such a disaster happen again? Then all those traps that protected them were to warn us...
Jahn: You sealed them away? That was a good decision. But they seem to be in your hands right now.
Roy: ......
Jahn: Do not worry. The weapons do not seem to have as much power as they did in the past. They are unable to bring about such a disaster again.
Roy: ......
Jahn: The great disaster hurt us Dragons greatly.
Roy: How?
Jahn: The disaster was originally the reason that we lost to the humans. ..I shall continue when you advance a little further.
 
Jahn: You have come again. You are doing better than I expected.
Roy: ...Please continue the story.
Jahn: When the order of nature collapsed, we Dragons took a fatal blow. The forces of nature weakened, and it became difficult for us to retain our original Dragon form. Therefore, we decided to seal our powers in gemstones and take human form instead.
Roy: Those must be the Dragon Stones...
Jahn: Yes. We were rendered utterly powerless against the humans. We were just as weak, no, even weaker than the humans in their pathetic form. The humans took advantage of our handicap and started attacking the Dragons that had taken human form.
Roy: Why did you choose the human form?
Jahn: In the new order of nature, the human was the form that required the least amount of energy to transform into. The Eight Heroes mercilessly crushed us, helpless in our human form. I, too, suffered a deep wound.
Roy: Do you have hate for the humans who wounded you?
Jahn: Hate? Only humans have such ridiculous emotions. We battled to maintain our species, and we lost. That is all.
Roy: ......
Jahn: This time, however, you humans might lose. Some human named Zephiel brought the Dark Dragon to life again.
Roy: ! Then Zephiel did break the Dark Dragon’s seal!
Jahn: That is correct. If you want to hear more, then show me your more of your worthiness.
 
Roy: Jahn! I know you’re there.
Jahn: Hm... It seems that you did indeed defeat Zephiel... You might make it far enough to be able to fight me.
Roy: What relation did the Dark Dragon have to Zephiel?
Jahn: You know that the founder of Bern is Hartmut, the leader of the Eight Heroes, do you not?
Roy: I know that.
Jahn: Then do you know that Hartmut didn’t kill the Dark Dragon, but only sealed it away?
Roy: I know. But I still don’t know why he did that.
Jahn: Hm...I see. The Eight Heroes eventually defeated our leader, and they made their way deep into the temple to find the Dark Dragon. However, when they arrived at the Dark Dragon’s chamber, all they saw was a human girl, looking off into space. It was Idunn.
Roy: They didn’t fight?
Jahn: The Dark Dragon had its soul destroyed to follow our leader’s commands. Since our leader had been killed, there were no further commands to follow.
Roy: Then what happened to the Dark Dragon?
Jahn: The Eight Heroes naturally hesitated. They had expected to see the most powerful Dragon, but all they saw was a girl who wouldn’t respond even if spoken to.
Roy: ......
Jahn: But the Dark Dragon still had to be defeated, so the Eight Heroes prepared for battle. Idunn then must have reacted to their attacks. She changed into the Dark Dragon and fought back, just like the War Dragons who have no heart. Hartmut then used a blade even stronger than the Divine Weapons and slashed at the Dark Dragon’s scales.
Roy: The Binding Blade!
Jahn: I don’t know what you humans call it, but that must be it. Anyway, when that sword cut through the Dark Dragon’s flesh, it suddenly fell unconscious.
Roy: It didn’t die?
Jahn: Yes. Apparently, the sword reacted to its wielder’s feelings and changed its power accordingly.
Roy: So Hartmut didn’t want to kill it, so the Binding Blade reacted to his emotions and only knocked the Dark Dragon unconscious?
Jahn: I understand that Hartmut did know a little bit about the Dark Dragon. Then, after seeing it as the little girl, Idunn, he must have felt pity. It is another emotion that we Dragons cannot comprehend.
Roy: Pity...
Jahn: And thus, at the bottom of his heart, he didn’t want to kill her. In my opinion, I would never leave something that would be a danger to me alive.
Roy: So Hartmut’s feelings changed the sword’s strength...
Jahn: Hartmut persuaded his comrades and decided to seal the Dark Dragon. He built a temple deep in the forests of Bern and sealed Idunn away using the sword and a gemstone. They are what you call the Binding Blade and the Fire Emblem. He then created a nation near the temple that would watch over and protect the seal from being broken. That is Bern.
Roy: ...How do you know all this? Were you watching?
Jahn: No. I had been deeply wounded, so I was leading a hidden life healing myself. I heard the story about the seal from Zephiel. Although, he said that he had read about it in the ancient scrolls kept in the castle library.
Roy: How did you meet Zephiel?
Jahn: How did I meet him? Hm... If you reach me, I will tell you. It is not far now.
 
Jahn: You have come far. I am in the chamber right in front of you. It has been long since I last met humans in my true form. I have not left this place ever since the war.
Roy: You... You were always here?
Jahn: One thousand years... Having survived the Scouring, I waited, healing my wounds in the process. I waited for the resurrection of the Dark Dragon that would bring hope to us Dragons again. And that time finally came. The Dark Dragon’s seal was broken, and I felt power flowing in my veins again.
Roy: How does the Dark Dragon’s seal being broken make your strength recover?
Jahn: The Dragon Temple’s power depends on the Dark Dragon’s, and thus the Divine Dragons’, life force. If the Dark Dragon were to be sealed, then there is no way I could have recovered to full strength by using the temple’s power.
Roy: I see...
Jahn: After my strength fully recovered, I set out to look for the person who had broken the seal. I used my illusion to search him out and ask his intentions. I did not wish to go outside in my true form, knowing that you humans now ran the world.
Roy: Wait... I thought that Dragons in their human form lost most of their powers. Then how are you creating this illusion?
Jahn: This temple is for the Dragons. It is the only place that Dragons can use a little of their power even in human form. I am a fairly powerful Dragon. Even in human form, as long as I stay in here, creating an illusion is easy. Still, I am not able to create actual things like the Dark Dragon can.
Roy: So...you found Zephiel.
Jahn: Yes. I found Zephiel and asked him, ‘Why did you break the Dark Dragon’s seal?’ Zephiel was an odd man. He didn’t seem to be the least bit surprised. He looked me right back in the eye and asked who I was. After I told him that I was a Dragon, he started to smile mysteriously. He then said, ‘My intentions are to give the world to your kind.'
Roy: ......
Jahn: I cannot say that I fully trusted him, but he was still the Dark Dragon’s new master, so I decided to work with him. Zephiel then ordered the Dark Dragon to lead the world in the place of foolish humans.
Roy: But Zephiel is dead. What is the Dark Dragon doing now?
Jahn: Although he is gone, the Idunn resides in the chamber behind me. She is waiting for the chance to free the world.
Roy: But her master is now gone! Are you her new master?
Jahn: I did not need to become her master. She was commanded to carry out Zephiel’s orders even if he were to die. Idunn has absolute obedience to her master. She will make sure that you humans are banished from this land.
Roy: What? Her soul was destroyed, and now she’s bound to orders given by a person long dead?
Jahn: Do you feel pity, like Hartmut did? ...You humans are truly difficult to understand. But let me tell you this. No matter how hard you try, humans and Dragons will never be able to live in harmony. The gap between our species is impossible to fill.
Roy: That’s not true! I know a place where Dragons and humans live together. Dragons and humans both were brought into the same world. They can, and will understand each other!
Jahn: Dragons and humans, living together in harmony? Rubbish... I have no intention of listening to such nonsense. Now, enter my domain. Let us see who has more power!

@Boss 
Jahn: One thousand years… My strength has long recovered. I can feel it…

Jahn: So, I have lost… Humans are truly unpredictable…

@End 
Roy: In the next chamber lies the Dark Dragon...
Fa: ...Roy...
Roy: ? What’s wrong, Fa? You look like you’re about to burst into tears.
Fa: Is...is Fa also an enemy...?
Roy: Huh?
Fa: When... When Fa gets big, will Fa become a bad Dragon, too?
Roy: !? Wait, Fa. Tell me what you want to say, slowly.
Fa: That man said so... Dragons and people can’t live together...
Roy: But you were living in Nabata with people, weren’t you?
Fa: But the Dark Dragon is a Divine Dragon like Fa! And you’re going to fight the Dark Dragon, right? What about Fa? If Fa grows up and becomes like the Dark Dragon, then...
Roy: You don’t have to worry about that. Even if you grow up, you’ll always be Fa. You’ll always be together with humans, and with us.
Fa: ...Really?
Roy: Sure! And also, I actually want to help the Dark Dragon.
Fa: Help?
Roy: The Dark Dragon is not acting on her own will...she had her soul destroyed. I... I don’t want to kill her, if I can avoid it.
Fa: ...Fa doesn’t get it.
Roy: You’ll understand when you’re little older.
Roy: Hartmut posed a question. And I’ll give an answer to it!
@Opening 
Lord Erik, Marquess of Laus, had been working with Bern against his allies of Lycia. This gave Roy further shock. Lycia, where Roy had grown up in, was no longer a safe place to be either. Heading for Ostia, Roy decided to move through the mountains, where people seldom want to avoid unnecessary trouble.

@Intro 
Bandit: Boss! Our boys just got back from scouting the village.
Dory: Then let's go get our tribute.
Bandit: But Boss, something's different today. There's an army stationed real close to us! They say it looks like the Lycian Army.
Dory: Lycia? Then there's nothing to worry about. They were almost wiped out by Bern. We can handle a few battered soldiers.
Bandit: You're right, boss!
Boss: They've probably got some valuables on them too! Still, don't get careless. Ready then? Let's mop up these losers, boys!

Merlinus: A villager is here to see you, Lord Roy. Hey, you, wait just a second...
Villager: Are you Lord Roy of House Pherae?
Roy: Yes. How may I help you?
Villager: Milord, I beg you! Please, rid us of the bandits terrorizing our village!
Roy: Bandits?
Villager: There's a group of bandits that made their base in the castle near the cliffs.
Roy: Where are the castle guards?
Villager: They fled once they heard that the Lycian Army was defeated by Bern... We villagers were left on our own. Our days are spent in fear of bandit attacks.
Roy: .....
Villager: We have no one else we can ask. Please, help us!
Merlinus: Lord Roy, we must keep our pace towards Ostia...
Roy: Yes, I know. But we can't simply ignore people in need of help!
Merlinus: You're joking!
Villager: You will help us?! Thank you! Please use the gate to the west. It'll take you right to the castle.
Roy: Thank you.
Villager: I'll arrange for the gate to be opened when you give the signal.

Roy: Merlinus! We're going to the castle to drive off the bandits!
Merlinus: Sigh... Youthful energy. Where does it come from?

@Battle 
Yoder: Thank you, Dorothy. Please tell Brother Saul as well.
Dorothy: I will, Father Yoder.

Dorothy: But where did Saul run off to now? How am I supposed to guard him if he keeps disappearing?

Girl: Er... Brother Saul, I appreciate the offer, but not tonight...
Saul: Come now, don't be like that. We can sit by the fire in the dark of night as I soothe you with my calming sermons...
Dorothy: There you are! Saul!
Saul: Wonderful. Dorothy...
Girl: I'll take my leave now.
Saul: No, don't go! Oh my... Look what you've done now, Dorothy. That expression on your face scared her away.
Dorothy: This is my normal look! Saul, you can't try to woo every girl you meet.
Saul: You make it sound like a bad thing! I simply offer my helping hand to any poor souls in need.
Dorothy: Then why do you always offer to give your sermons at night?
Saul: ...Well, putting that aside... Did you have some good reason for interrupting my good work?
Dorothy: Oh, right. The Lycian Army is apparently somewhere around here.
Saul: Truly?! Is Princess Guinivere still with them?
Dorothy: Yes, if the reports from the St. Elimine Church are accurate.
Saul: Then we must make haste! Let us join them.
Dorothy: .....
Saul: What's the matter, Dorothy?
Dorothy: You only want to join them because Princess Guinivere is said to be so beautiful.
Saul: Don't be ridiculous... Come now, hurry along.
Dorothy: Yes, let's go!

@Visit 
Village: Hold on. Before you go, take this lance with you. It was once wielded by a knight called Sir Gant. The stories say he bested many a foe with this lance!

House: If you can, try to occupy forts. That'll stop enemy reinforcements from showing up!

House: I was there when Araphen was taken... The wyvern riders of Bern were terrifying enough... But then a dragon engulfed the Lycian Army in flame... Oh Elimine, please tell me it was a dream...

House: This whole area is really perfect for bandits. It's no wonder they appeared. They can cross mountains and a bandit on a peak is a force to be reckoned with. Dreadful. Just dreadful...

@Boss 
Dory: No one's ever survived a blow from my axe! Hey, you. Wanna see why?

Dory: Gah...! No...I don't wanna...die...

@End 
Merlinus: Lord Roy! A priest from the St. Elimine Church wants an audience with you...and Princess Guinivere!
Roy: He knew that Princess Guinivere was with us?
Merlinus: Yes. I can't imagine how.
Roy: Me neither... I'll see him alone.
Guinevere: Roy, I will be fine. I wish to meet this priest.
Roy: Princess?
Guinevere: Tensions between my brother and the church have worsened as of late. I do not believe they would attempt anything underhanded.
Roy: I see. Merlinus, allow this priest in.
Saul: Lord Roy, it is a pleasure to meet you at last. I am Saul, an acolyte of the St. Elimine Church.
Roy: Pleased to meet you.
Saul: Oh... And you must be Princess Guinivere! You are as beautiful as the rumors say!
Guinevere: Pardon me...?
Saul: Ahem... Forgive me. Your Highness, I wish to know the location of the Fire Emblem. You have it with you, do you not?
Guinevere: How did you know that?!
Saul: Bern's head church tells us the Fire Emblem disappeared from the Shrine of Seals. And you also went missing at exactly the same time.
Guinevere: .....
Saul: I was sent by the Church to confirm the truth. Why did you take the Fire Emblem?
Guinevere: ...I wished to stop my brother.
Saul: Your brother... Zephiel, the king of Bern.
Guinevere: Yes.
Saul: Do you know what the Fire Emblem is used for?
Guinevere: ...It's the key that awakens a sword that was used to slay the dragons long ago. That was what my father told me anyway. I am unsure how exactly the Fire Emblem or the sword work. My brother seemed to worry abut the Fire Emblem falling into enemy hands. ...Extraordinarily so.
Saul: So you took the Fire Emblem to make the king believe it fell into enemy hands? All in an attempt to stop his conquest?
Guinevere: Yes...but the war continued anyway.
Saul: And what will you do now?
Guinevere: ...Must I reveal my plan at this moment?
Saul: Ah, so Your Highness has a plan.
Guinevere: Yes. I have not given up hope of settling this war without further bloodshed.
Saul: I see. In that case, I will accompany you on your journey.
Guinevere: If Roy allows it.
Roy: I have no objections.
Guinevere: Thank you, Roy.
Roy: Of course, Princess.@Opening 
Roy headed towards the ruins in Sacae, after the Divine Weapon.

However, the remaining forces of the Djute clan were waiting for Roy in the
ruins...

@Intro 
Soldier: The Etrurian Army is here!
Thoril: They won’t stop until they make everything theirs... We will not let that happen. Tell our brothers that we will defend this land to the death. We will avenge our dead comrades!
Soldier: Yes!
 
Roy: The Divine Weapon lies here... Sin, do you know about this place?
Sin: All I know is that the Divine Warrior Hanon’s bow, the Miurgre, or the Bow of the Winds, is kept here.
Roy: Hanon... She and Saint Elimine were the only two women among the Eight Heroes.
Sin: So it seems. ...Watch your back. The Djute will give us everything they’ve got to avenge their clansmen.
Roy: All right, we have to be careful. Let’s go!

@End 
Soldier: It’s here! The bow is hidden in the altar!
Roy: This is the Miurgre... It looks like an ordinary bow, but it must have incredible power.
Merlinus: Master Roy, Bern’s troops are retreating.
Roy: Oh. All right.
Merlinus: All right? We must give chase.
Roy: No, don’t. They’re fleeing. They don’t have any more will to fight.
Merlinus: But...
Roy: They have families as well. There’s no need to fight more than necessary.
 
Roy: Merlinus, I need you to send this letter to Bishop Yoder in Etruria.
Merlinus: A letter? May I ask what it says?
Roy: It’s the story we heard from Niime about the Dragons.
Merlinus: Oh? What did you discuss with her about the Dragons?
Roy: It’ll be long if I tell you. I haven’t sealed the letter yet, so you can look through it if you want.
Merlinus: All right. Let me see...
Guinevere: ...Roy.
Roy: Princess, is something wrong?
Guinevere: ...We enter Bern now.
Roy: Yes. We will attack Bern very soon. So...may I ask the rest of the story now...?
Guinevere: ...Yes. That is why I came to you.
Roy: King Zephiel was an outstanding pupil is his studies, he was skilled in warcraft... He grew to be the perfect heir for the king.
Guinevere: That is correct.
Roy: But still, the former king did not look kindly at him.
Guinevere: In fact... Our father began to hate Zephiel because he grew to become such a brilliant and worthy youth.
Roy: What...is that supposed to mean...?
Guinevere: Our father was a man of ordinary skill and intellect. Therefore, Zephiel’s outstanding skill made our father cold towards him.
Roy: Jealousy...?
Guinevere: And then one day, our father told Zephiel that ‘the next heir to Bern would be Guinevere’s husband.'
Roy: What! That’s awful!
Guinevere: But Zephiel was very patient. He said that he did not mind even if he could not gain the throne. But the people around us, who were looking forward to Zephiel’s ability to be a good king, would not allow anyone else to be the heir. Pressured by the public, our father lost his patience at last, and...
Roy: Decided to kill King Zephiel...?
Guinevere: At a banquet, our father gave Zephiel a poisoned drink from his own hands. And that was the first and last cup that Zephiel took from our father. After returning to his room, Zephiel started to get sick. For ten days and nights, Zephiel lingered between life and death. But Murdock, Zephiel’s teacher and loyal general, saved his life.
Roy: ...The former king never did anything after that?
Guinevere: No... But I have heard that he had plans to get rid of Murdock and Zephiel’s mother as traitors. He was scheming to murder them all along with Zephiel. After hearing that, Zephiel made believe that he was dead. Our father then checked the coffin to confirm Zephiel’s death. At that moment, Zephiel rose up from the coffin and...with his sword...
Roy: ......
Guinevere: I was but a child then, so naturally I could not have understood what was going on. All I knew is that after our father died, Zephiel never smiled again. Until then, he was strict at times, but he was always a kind and loving brother to me. So...
Roy: Princess...
Guinevere: So I... At the bottom of my heart, I trust that Zephiel can change, that he can become that loving brother again. I...had to take action.
Roy: I...see...
Guinevere: ...But now, my brother is in a place where my words cannot reach him. Roy, please... Please stop him. Please stop him from inflicting pain and suffering to the people of Bern...and the rest of Elibe.
Roy: Even if it may resolve to the blade?
Guinevere: ...I have made my resolve when I entrusted this task to you.
Roy: I see. You have my word and loyalty, Princess Guinevere. I swear to the Fire Emblem that I will stop King Zephiel!
@Opening 
After defeating Arcard, Roy crossed the border and entered the land of Sacae.

After Bern invaded, the Djute clan, the most powerful clan in Sacae, became
its servant.  Most of those clans who stood up against the two joint forces
had already been decimated.  Although the "Silver Wolf" Dayan, the leader of
the Kutolah clan, has been retaliating with guerilla tactics, the situation
was dire.  Sacae had basically become a territory of Bern.

Now, as Roy set foot on the plains of Sacae, the warriors of the Djute clan
stood in his path.

@Intro 
Soldier: The Etrurian Army has appeared from the west.
Monke: Good. Lure them into our territory as planned. We shall show them our strength. Have the other clans been notified?
Soldier: Yes. Although there are many clans who are expressing their discontent toward our alliance with Bern, further invasion by Etrurian forces seems to require more attention.
Monke: I see. ...The Etrurian army should be easier to deal with than the Silver Wolf, since the Etrurian Army is a invasion force.
Soldier: The clans will unite to fight against invaders...
Monke: Right. That is the law of Sacae. When we were up against the Silver Wolf, no one aided us because they saw it as conflict between clans.
Soldier: But now that we have Bern behind us, we don’t need their help.
Monke: Exactly. Of course, there are many who don’t like the idea that it is Bern who has actual control of Sacae’s politics.
Soldier: Yes. I hear that there are many clans who agree with the Silver Wolf and joined forces with him.
Monke: He is too stubborn. His clan was defeated, so he should join us. It is not as if he doesn’t know what happens to those who try and fight a head-on battle with Bern.
Soldier: Even large cities like Bulgar have been attacked and taken over by Bern since they resisted.
Monke: From now on, those who are strong enough to manipulate the situation around them will survive, like us. And right now, we must take advantage of the law of Sacae to do so.
 
Roy: Princess Guinevere... We are getting closer to Bern.
Guinevere: ...Yes.
Roy: Since we are getting closer, we are claSing with soldiers from Bern more and more often. It will not be long before we engage in full combat with Bern.
Guinevere: ......
Roy: I wish to ask you something before we do.
Guinevere: What is that?
Roy: I have been hearing rumors...that King Zephiel rose to the throne because he murdered the former king.
Guinevere: !
Roy: I couldn’t believe it. You tried to stop him even by casting away your nationality. If King Zephiel is such a mad individual as the rumors say, then why did you try so hard to find a peaceful way to end the war?
Guinevere: ......
Roy: Princess Guinevere, I accepted the Fire Emblem not to use it in battle, but to try and find a use for it to end this war peacefully.
Guinevere: Roy...
Roy: Therefore, please tell me the truth about the rumors...
Guinevere: I...I’m sorry. Please...give me some time.

@Boss 
Monke: Yes... That’s right! Closer...closer... Right into our trap!

Monke: Argh...! How could you defeat us... My calculations...were...flawless...

%Sue,Monke
Monke: You are the Silver Wolf’s granddaughter...

%Sin,Monke
Monke: ...A survivor of the Kutolah clan?
Sin: Monke! Feel the Kutolah’s wrath!

@End 
Merlinus: That was no easy feat.
Roy: But now we have given a telling blow to our strongest enemy in Sacae. Although I’m sure that there are remaining forces somewhere...
Merlinus: They must be meeting to plan a retaliation.
Roy: Can we find out where they are meeting?
Merlinus: Well, I sent out a spy earlier, so he should be returning soon. I shall go check.
Guinevere: ......
Roy: Is something wrong, Princess Guinevere?
Guinevere: ...I have come to speak about my brother.
Roy: ! ...Are you sure?
Guinevere: Yes... I want you to know before we enter Bern...about the tragedies that have occurred. You asked earlier if my brother murdered the former king.
Roy: Yes...
Guinevere: In short...it is true.
Roy: ! Then King Zephiel indeed killed his own father to seize the throne...
Guinevere: No!
Roy: No? He didn’t kill his father to get the throne?
Guinevere: No... Our father was the one who tried to kill Zephiel first.
Roy: What!? Then King Zephiel...
Guinevere: He...couldn’t bear the abuse he was taking from our father. And so he...
Roy: What... Why did...
Merlinus: Master Roy! We have found where the enemy is meeting! ...? What is the matter?
Guinevere: No...it is nothing. Perhaps later...
Merlinus: ...Did I appear at a bad time?
Roy: No, it’s okay. Where is the meeting place?
Merlinus: It is in a city called Bulgar.
Roy: Bulgar...I’ve heard of it.
Merlinus: It is the largest city in Sacae. Of course, it is now under Bern’s control.
Roy: I see... All right, we’ll be heading there soon.
Roy: ...Why did the former king try to murder his own son...?
@Opening 
After taking back Castle Edessa, Roy turned his troops towards the ancient ruins located on the outskirts of the land. There was a high chance that a Divine Weapon was hidden there.

@Intro 
Soldier: Lord Teck! The enemy is advancing!
Teck: There is no need to panic. These ruins are surrounded by thick walls. They won’t be able to come in so easily.
Soldier: But the enemy has defeated the Ilian troops and our troops one after another! We do not have a high chance of winning...!
Teck: We do not have to win. Lord Murdock said that all we must do is defend this place. We must hold out until the enemy gives up and leaves.
 
Roy: The Divine Weapon lies in here... Elffin, have you heard about this place?
Elffin: Yes. I believe that the Malte, the Frozen Spear, in hidden in these ruins.
Roy: Frozen Spear...
Elffin: Barigan the Faithful used it during the Scouring.
Roy: Barigan? All knights know about him. I used to hear a lot about him during my studies. He is the finest example of knighthood. ...This building seems to have walls everywhere. Is there a path leading inside?
Elffin: Probably the remaining forces of Bern buried the pathways to defend themselves.
Roy: Then they must not have had much time to do it... Maybe the walls are weak in certain places.
Elffin: That is possible.
Roy: All right. Let’s do what we can.

@Boss 
Teck: No… I must be dreaming. How did you come through those walls?

Teck: Pass, strong ones… And know Bern’s true power…

@End 
Soldier: It’s here! The spear is here!
Roy: ... This is Barigan’s spear, Malte... It’s beautiful, as if it’s made of crystal and ice.
Merlinus: Master Roy, Bern’s troops are escaping.
Roy: Oh. All right.
Merlinus: All right? We must give chase.
Roy: No, don’t. They’re fleeing. They don’t have any more will to fight.
Merlinus: But...
Roy: They have families as well. There’s no need to fight more than necessary.
 
Roy: Princess Guinevere, we will attack Bern now. So may I ask...
Guinevere: ...The rest of the story.
Roy: King Zephiel was an outstanding pupil is his studies, he was skilled in warcraft... He grew to be the perfect heir for the king.
Guinevere: That is correct.
Roy: But still, the former king did not look kindly at him.
Guinevere: In fact... Our father began to hate Zephiel because he grew to become such a brilliant and worthy youth.
Roy: What...is that supposed to mean...?
Guinevere: Our father was a man of ordinary skill and intellect. Therefore, Zephiel’s outstanding skill made our father cold towards him.
Roy: Jealousy...?
Guinevere: And then one day, our father told Zephiel that ‘the next heir to Bern would be Guinevere’s husband.'
Roy: What! That’s awful!
Guinevere: But Zephiel was very patient. He said that he did not mind even if he could not gain the throne. But the people around us, who were looking forward to Zephiel’s ability to be a good king, would not allow anyone else to be the heir. Pressured by the public, our father lost his patience at last, and...
Roy: Decided to kill King Zephiel...?
Guinevere: At a banquet, our father gave Zephiel a poisoned drink from his own hands. And that was the first and last cup that Zephiel took from our father. After returning to his room, Zephiel started to get sick. For ten days and nights, Zephiel lingered between life and death. But Murdock, Zephiel’s teacher and loyal general, saved his life.
Roy: ...The former king never did anything after that?
Guinevere: No... But I have heard that he had plans to get rid of Murdock and Zephiel’s mother as traitors. He was scheming to murder them all along with Zephiel. After hearing that, Zephiel made believe that he was dead. Our father then checked the coffin to confirm Zephiel’s death. At that moment, Zephiel rose up from the coffin and...with his sword...
Roy: ......
Guinevere: I was but a child then, so naturally I could not have understood what was going on. All I knew is that after our father died, Zephiel never smiled again. Until then, he was strict at times, but he was always a kind and loving brother to me. So...
Roy: Princess...
Guinevere: So I... At the bottom of my heart, I trust that Zephiel can change, that he can become that loving brother again. I...had to take action.
Roy: I...see...
Guinevere: ...But now, my brother is in a place where my words cannot reach him. Roy, please... Please stop him. Please stop him from inflicting pain and suffering to the people of Bern...and the rest of Elibe.
Roy: Even if it may resolve to the blade?
Guinevere: ...I have made my resolve when I entrusted this task to you.
Roy: I see. You have my word and loyalty, Princess Guinevere. I swear to the Fire Emblem that I will stop King Zephiel!
@Opening 
After obtaining the Binding Blade, Roy led the Etrurian Army to Castle Bern, where King Zephiel was waiting.

Zephiel, the man responsible for starting this war…

Inside the castle, Zephiel awaited with his personal guards by his side.

Roy prepared to charge the castle. To end this war, and to bring peace to Elibe again…

@Intro 
Zephiel: So... Murdock was defeated...
Brunnya: ...I am sorry.
Zephiel: ...How is the Etrurian Army behaving?
Brunnya: They have captured the Temple of Seals. They are currently headed this way.
Zephiel: I see... Then we shall face them inside this castle.
Brunnya: Yes. I will protect you to the death, your Majesty.
Zephiel: No. Brunnya, I have a very important task for you.
Brunnya: What...?
Zephiel: Idunn. Where is Idunn?
Idunn: ...Here, your Majesty.
Zephiel: I will stay here and defend the castle from the Etrurian Army. Idunn, you must escape and hide until this battle is over.
Idunn: If his Majesty wishes.
Zephiel: Brunnya, I want you to escape as well. Protect Idunn.
Brunnya: What!? Please! Let me fight by your side!
Zephiel: No. ...This will be a harsh battle. I cannot afford to lose Idunn now. If Idunn were lost...this whole war would be meaningless.
Brunnya: But! I, I...!
Zephiel: Enough, Brunnya! This is an order. Are you telling me that you cannot follow your king’s commands?
Brunnya: No... I’m not saying that...
Zephiel: Idunn, even if I fall... I trust you understand.
Idunn: Yes... I will free the world, as you commanded.
Zephiel: Right. I will not give up my dream now.
Idunn: Yes.
 
Hero: The Etrurian Army has come... I will not let you invade the throne room!
 
Hero: I shall protect this device with my life!
 
Roy: This is the king’s castle...
Merlinus: Master Roy, Zephiel is residing in the throne room at the center of the castle. However, there seem to be some special devices that protect the throne room when invaders appear.
Roy: What kind of devices?
Merlinus: One of the captives said that at the west end of the castle, there are switches that need to pulled before one can access the throne room.
Roy: It’ll be a long detour...
Merlinus: There is more. After hitting the switches, you must hold the ‘Gem’ in front of the throne room door to make it open.
Roy: Gem? Is it the Fire Emblem?
Merlinus: Most likely.
Roy: I have that with me. So I should head to the throne room while leaving the switches to the others...
Merlinus: That would be the shortest way.
Roy: ...But would the captives leak that kind of information so easily? Perhaps it’s a trap...
Merlinus: I doubt it, Master Roy. The captive also said, ‘The switches and the door are all defended by Bern’s most powerful warriors. You wouldn’t be able to get to the throne room even if you knew how.'
Roy: We need to try, even if we’re going up against powerful enemies. We’ve gotten strong as well. We won’t lose!

@Battle 
Zephiel: So, you have come. Hmph...how ironic. A child, stepping in my path.
Roy: Zephiel...King of Bern... I will ask you this. Why did you start this war?
Zephiel: ...I wish to end the age of men.
Roy: ...What?
Zephiel: Humans... Humans are filthy. They flock to those with power and would not think twice about betraying trusted allies to obtain more power. You must have witnessed numerous traitors in your travels. Am I right?
Roy: ......
Zephiel: Jealousy. Hate. Greed. Friends, even family members are driven to kill by such ludicrous emotions. Such emotions create fathers who try to kill their own sons to save their own flesh. As long as humans control, as long as humans dictate, as long as humans exist...this madness will never end.
Roy: But look at what you are doing! You are one of those humans who control others!
Zephiel: ...You know how the Scouring ended.
Roy: The Dark Dragon was defeated by Hartmut...
Zephiel: That was the mistake.
Roy: Mistake?
Zephiel: Mankind should not have won. Just because the humans came out victorious, this world came under their control, and transformed into a world of madness and evil, driven by accursed emotions!
Roy: ......
Zephiel: Mistakes must be fixed with haste. I will give the world back to the Dragons. I will free the world from the evil grasp of men. History must be redone from the beginning to save this world from everlasting evil!
Roy: Then...it is true that you resurrected the Dark Dragon.
Zephiel: You may see that for yourself.
Roy: You said you would give the world to the Dragons. Then rule by humans would just be replaced by similar rule by Dragons!
Zephiel: The Dragons you see now are weapons for battle. They have no ‘self.’ They have no cruel emotions to be driven by, unlike foolish humans. The world under the Dragons’ control would be fair and peaceful.
Roy: I cannot agree that such a world would be for the better good! It is true that humans have many evil emotions and do terrible things, but it has always been us humans who have corrected such wrongdoings!
Zephiel: Hmph...you are indeed naive.
Roy: I have faith in mankind. I will not lose to a man who has lost faith in his people and even in himself!

@Boss 
Zephiel: You shall not bar my path!

Zephiel: …So, you have defeated me… But remember… My dream shall never die… As long as…humans retain control…madness will persist…

@End 
Guinevere: Zephiel...
Roy: ...Princess Guinevere.
Guinevere: I’m sorry... Please leave me alone for a while...
Roy: Princess...!
Merlinus: Master Roy... We should let her be.
Elffin: ...Allow me.
Roy: Elffin!
Elffin: Yes?
Roy: ...Thank you. I knew you had your own problems with your own nation... But you helped us. I must thank you...
Elffin: ...I don’t quite understand what you mean...but if I have been helpful, then you are most welcome.
Roy: Yes.
Roy: ...Control over humans by humans...
Merlinus: Zephiel’s words? Perhaps he was right...in a way.
Roy: ...Has the Dark Priestess been found?
Merlinus: No... Apparently she disappeared before the battle.
Roy: I see... Do you think she’s really the Dark Dragon?
Merlinus: I wouldn’t know unless I actually saw her. It’s going to be difficult to find her because she is said to clad in a black robe, and no one has ever seen her up close.
Roy: Oh... But the battle is now over.
Merlinus: What are you saying, Master Roy! The hard part has yet to come. We must help the land recover from the war. There are people out there who need our assistance.
Roy: Right! We have work to do. The real battle may be just beginning.
Merlinus: Yes. We are alive, so we must think about the future.
Roy: No matter what hardships are to come, I will never give up. We have to show that even humans can construct a beautiful and peaceful world!
Merlinus: Master Roy, you will have me at your side, always. Now, let us leave the castle for now. We must spread the word of victory!

^locked
Roy: The king of Bern is finished...
Merlinus: We’ve done it, Master Roy.
Elffin: ...Perhaps it is a bit early to rejoice.
Merlinus: What?
Roy: What do you mean?
Elffin: We still haven’t found the Dark Priestess yet.
Merlinus: Hm, perchance she escaped?
Roy: ......
Merlinus: Wh-What is happening!?
Roy: Zephiel’s sword just flashed! What was its name...
Elffin: Exaccus... A sword that can only be used by the heirs to Bern’s throne...
Merlinus: W-Wait! One of the legends of the Scouring said... When all of the Divine Weapons meet in one place, thus appears the Dragon Temple...
Roy: Dragon Temple...
Merlinus: It was the Dragons’ headquarters during the Scouring, I believe.
Elffin: Yes, that is what the legends say.
Roy: Then the Exaccus was the last Divine Weapon? I thought Hartmut’s sword was the Binding Blade.
Elffin: ...The Binding Blade may be different. Perhaps it is even more powerful than the Divine Weapons...
Roy: More powerful...? What kind of power does this blade possess...?
Merlinus: Master Roy! The sword is glowing again! Look, a beam of light is pointing to the south!
Roy: Does this mean that the Dragon Temple is located where this light is pointing?
Merlinus: If the legends are true, then I would assume that as well.
Elffin: ...If the Dark Priestess is indeed the Dark Dragon... There is a high chance that she is there.
Roy: All right! Let’s go to the Dragon Temple!
^end 

@Narration 
And thus, the battle known later as the Great Movement of Bern was resolved.

With Zephiel’s death, Bern surrendered to Etruria. Etruria dismantled its government, but after careful consideration, avoided directly administering its reconstruction.

With Roy’s help, Guinevere took the throne and the New Kingdom of Bern was established. Many of the nobles of Bern expressed their discontent at Guinevere handing over the Fire Emblem to the former enemy, but with her efforts and hard work, she cut open a new path of recovery for Bern.

While the Dark Priestess was never found, peace was restored, and Elibe was set for a new age of prosperity led by Etruria.

Elibe regained its former peace and balance. Centuries after Roy’s time, the nations in Elibe were united under a single flag, but that is another story for another time…@Opening 
To liberate the people of the Western Isles once and for all, Roy headed for Jutes, the Isles' largest city. The Etrurian capital was located there. Lord Arcard, the supervisor of the mining operation on the Isles, resided in Jutes. According to Elffin, Arcard was of high birth, but he held no importance in the Etrurian court. Roy was still worried about Etruria's response to his attacking the capital, but he had no choice if he was going to rescue the people.

@Intro 
Arcard: S-S... Sir Flaer!
Flaer: Lord Arcard. Why do you fret so?
Arcard: It's the Lycian Army! They come for my blood!
Flaer: Yes, they have been a thorn in Bern's side for some time... We knew it would be difficult if they became too friendly with Etruria. That's why we had you send them here. It seems, however, they fight even better than expected.
Arcard: You don't understand the gravity of this situation! Do you realize how much I've lost thanks to their meddling? All the riches I've gotten from these islands are gone! ...And on top of that, now they want my life! Once they arrive, my legacy is finished! My hands are shaking. I don't know what to do...
Flaer: My, how you worry. I suggest you flee to Etruria.
Arcard: You will allow it?
Flaer: Warfare is Bern's strong suit. We also have our secret weapon ready to brandish. With it we shall erase the Lycian Army once and for all.
Arcard: But...
Flaer: Lord Arcard. Once Bern and Etruria join forces, we will have nobody to fear. Am I wrong?
Arcard: No... No! You're right. I leave them to you.

Flaer: Hmph, cowardly Etrurian nobles. If we defeat the Lycian Army here, the Isles shall be ours...

Roy: This is the capital... Once we take it, we can finally go home.

Elffin: I have already sent someone in to unlock the gate... Oh, there she is.
Roy: The one over there dressed like a dancer?
Elffin: Yes, that's her.
Larum: Your Majesty! Over here!
Roy: Your Majesty?
Elffin: ...I know not of what she speaks.
Larum: Your Majesty! You're late.
Elffin: Larum, why do you call me "Your Majesty"?
Larum: Huh? …Oh! Ah... er… Well, you know, you look like royalty, so it's your nickname!
Elffin: …...
Roy: …...
Elffin: My apologies, Lord Roy. This is Larum, a member of the resistance.
Larum: You're Roy? Everyone on the Isles has heard of you! They all call you the Savior from the East. Nice to meet you! I'm Larum.
Roy: Whoa! Please leave a little distance!
Larum: Roy, your face is all red. How cute!!
Elffin: ...Larum...
Larum: Oh! R-right... There's something I should tell you. I've been hearing strange rumors. The people here say that an "unhuman" resides in this castle.
Roy: An "unhuman"...?
Larum: Oh, yes. They say he changes form into something that looks like a dragon!
Roy: A human? That can change into a dragon?!
Larum: I don't know... but that's what I hear.
Elffin: We must proceed with caution.

@Battle 
Flaer: Ah, there you are, Ain.
Ain: You called...?
Flaer: I will make a report about the Lycian Army to General Narcian. I want you to defend the castle while I am away.
Ain: ...Understood.
Flaer: Hm? Who's there?! …… Just the wind...? Ahem. I will take my leave now. I leave them to your discretion.
Ain: ...Understood.
Flaer: Ha ha… The Lycian Army will hardly be able to stand against this dragon. Normal weapons won't even scratch it's skin. These manaketes… They certainly are terrifying beasts.

Raigh: So that's what the "unhuman" is. Bern really has brought dragons into this world. ...What to do now...? I guess I'll pose as a soldier and observe the dragon's power.

Cath: La la la la la, la la la la la… All the way out here in the Isles West, folks work to death for nobles in their nest! This castle's sure to be brimming with treasure! All this loot was stolen anyway. Might as well take it off these nobles' hands.

Soldier: The reinforcements from the south will arrive shortly!
Ain: ...
Soldier: ...Th-that's all, sir. 
Soldier: That guy gives me the chills...

Soldier 1: Did you handle the cave on the outskirts of town?
Soldier 2: Yes, sir. The bandits have blocked off all entrance to it. No one will be able to get to the legendary weapon now.
Soldier 1: Excellent! Now all we have to do is clean up the Lycian Army.

@End 
Roy: That was not an easy battle... The dragons' power is truly... Horrific.
Elffin: An unhuman... Now I understand.
Roy: How many of these dragons does Bern have...? How can we be expected to be victorious against monsters like these?!
Elffin: Lord Roy! Keep a level head.
Roy: Ah...
Elffin: ...I understand your worries. But if you panic, that feeling will spread to the army. You must remember that.
Roy: ...I'm sorry.
Elffin: It is a perfectly understandable reaction after a fight like that. But... we also gained knowledge that we did not have before.
Roy: What knowledge is that?
Elffin: Don't you remember? I told you Arcard was rumored to be working with Bern.
Roy: Oh, that's right! If Bern's dragons are in an Etrurian castle...
Elffin: Arcard has indeed made a deal with Bern.
Roy: ...That means Lycia is in danger... We must return to the mainland. We have to contact General Cecilia and conceive a plan...
^start
Elffin: Lord Roy, before returning to the mainland, there is a matter to take care of.
Roy: More bandits?
Elffin: No, thankfully. A legendary weapon is hidden in a cave not far from here. If we obtain it, we can fight the dragons more effectively.
Roy: A legendary weapon... You're right! If we can get all eight of them, we might have a chance of defeating Bern!
Elffin: Yes... We must find as many as we can.
Roy: Then let's go to the cave and get it!

Soldier: R-report! I have a message from Etruria... A revolution has broken out in Aquleia, the capital of Etruria.
Merlinus: What?!
Soldier: The ones leading the revolution are High Chancellor Roartz and Lord Arcard. They have captured King Mordred. They also say they plan to divided dominion of the continent between Bern and Etruria!
Merlinus: The two strongest nations in Elibe joining forces...
Roy: Is General Cecilia all right?! And what of Princess Guinivere...
Soldier: We don't have any current information... But the three Etrurian Generals have parted ways and are working separately. Mage General Cecilia has fled Aquleia for the Missur Peninsula in the southwest.
Roy: And the other Generals?
Soldier: They're with the revolutionaries against their will because the king was taken hostage.
Merlinus: Lord Roy...
Roy: We need to contact General Cecilia... Princess Guinivere… Please be safe...
^end

@Recruit-Talk 
%Roy,Cath 
Roy: Oh! You!
Cath: Hm? ...You again? You always come and mess up my plans. Do you have it out for me or something?
Roy: No! I just... wanted to apologize.
Cath: ...Excuse me?
Roy: The last time we met, I was pretty callous. I said you shouldn't steal, but I didn't even realize what you'd been through...
Cath: Oh that? Whatever. I don't care.
Roy: But I still think what you do is wrong.
Cath: You've got some nerve, you know that?
Roy: Just give me a chance.
Cath: A chance?
Roy: Once this war is over, I promise to help rebuild your village. I'll be sure the taxes are put to good use too. Just please, stop looting.
Cath: …… How long will that be?
Roy: Whenever this war ends. I can't say when...
Cath: And you expect me to wait patiently until then?
Roy: No. All I want is your faith.
Cath: ...Why are you so kind to me? I'm just a thief.
Roy: Without you, we wouldn't have escaped Wagner's trap. Maybe you didn't care about helping us, but the fact is that you did. You saved our lives. You're more than just a thief.
Cath: If things keep going like they have... I guess you'll get in my way no matter where I go.
Roy: As long as you appear in our path.
Cath: Fine, you win. I'll stop looting battlefields.
Roy: You will? Thank you.
Cath: But I'm coming with you.
Roy: What? Why?
Cath: Actions speak louder than words. Prove to me that you'll be true to your promise.
Roy: I won't disappoint you!

%Lugh,Raigh
Lugh: Raigh? Raigh! It's so good to see you!
Raigh: Lugh...! What are you doing here?
Lugh: I'm glad you're OK. We were all worried about you. I know you wanted to train your magic skills, but you left so suddenly.
Raigh: I couldn't have learned magic if I'd stayed at that orphanage. It was a miracle I picked up as much as I did.
Lugh: Raigh… The orphanage is gone.
Raigh: What? What happened?
Lugh: Bern came... and burned it down.
Raigh: ...What happened to everybody?
Lugh: Poppa was killed trying to protect us... The young children are under the care of the St. Elimine Church now.
Raigh: ...I see. It's for the best... They'll be happier at the church than at that dilapidated orphanage.
Lugh: You don't have to be so callous about it.
Raigh: …...
Lugh: Raigh! Come with us. We'll defeat Bern, and then we can go back to the children!
Raigh: Sorry, not interested.
Lugh: But--
Raigh: Then again... the Lycian Army might be good company. They're sure to come across more dragons at some point. All right, you got me. I suppose I'll go with you.
Lugh: Raigh...
Raigh: I just want you to know one thing. I'm not joining to avenge Poppa or the orphanage!
Lugh: I know, Raigh.
Raigh: Then stop looking at me like that!

%Chad,Raigh 
Chad: Raigh! What are you doing here?
Raigh: My thoughts exactly, Chad. What happened to the orphanage?
Chad: ...I knew you'd be concerned. You ran off, but I knew you'd never forget us.
Raigh: I was never concerned. I was just curious.
Chad: ...The orphanage is gone.
Raigh: What do you mean?
Chad: Bern's troops burned it to the ground when they invaded Lycia. Poppa... He couldn't...
Raigh: What?! They killed Poppa...?
Chad: I'm going to avenge him. We're stuck on these Isles now. But I know we'll go back and fight Bern full force some day...!
Raigh: …...
Chad: I suppose there's no point in telling you, though, is there?
Raigh: ...I'll go with you.
Chad: What?! Are you serious?
Raigh: Bern has a deep connection with the dragons. I want to learn more.
Chad: ...So that's it. Fine. Just don't get in my way.

@Boss 
Ain: ...Burn.

Ain: ...What...?!@Opening 
After driving off General Narcian from Ostia, Roy and company braced themselves for further attacks from Bern. However, Bern's belligerent movement towards Lycia suddenly stopped altogether, as if to mock Roy and his caution. Bern was also maintaining a neutral position regarding the truce offer from Etruria. Bern's sudden silence and lack of activity could only be described as eerie.

With Hector gone, Eliwood was now the only lasting power in Lycia. Eliwood summoned the various marquesses to Pherae to discuss their further actions. It was decided that Eliwood was to become the next leader of the Lycia Alliance and that a new Lycia Alliance Army would be established. The new army's purpose was not to take the offense against Bern, but rather take a defensive stance for Lycia. For his victory against Bern in Ostia, Roy was chosen to be the leader of the new Lycia Alliance army. Slowly but surely, the people of Lycia were starting to brighten up. Business was improving, and people's attitudes started to get more optimistic.

Around that time, Etruria called for Lycia's assistance in ridding the Western Isles of the outlaws and bandits making their base there. Lycia's citizens expressed their discontent by saying that they saw no reason in sending troops all the way to the Western Isles, but because Lycia needed Etruria's protection against Bern, they had no choice but to oblige. Thus, Roy and the Lycia Alliance Army passed through Etruria and made their way towards the Western Isles.

The Western Isles are the various islands off the western coast of Elibe. Currently, they are colonies of Etruria. The Western Isles are rich in minerals and natural resources, so mining is a major industry. However, these minerals are worth a fortune, so various rogue groups have traveled there hoping to loot the mines and sell the minerals for themselves. Thus, the people living on the Western Isles spend their days in constant fear of bandit attacks. And Roy has been sent to defeat those bandits.

@Intro 
Bandit: Boss! Those guys from Lycia, they're here.
Scott: You sure?
Bandit: Yep. We just saw 'em arrive on the small island to the east.
Scott: Just as that other group said... All right, they're probably floundering around in the fog unable to see anything. Just sneak up on them from behind and kill 'em off.
Bandit: Sure thing, boss.

Cecilia: Roy, I'm sorry that I couldn't be of help.
Roy: Please don't worry about it. It isn't your responsibility, Lady Cecilia.
Cecilia: Yes. But even within Etruria, there are a lot of people voicing their discontent on how the adviser is treating Lycia like servants.
Roy: Adviser? I thought the king had made the decision to send Lycia to clear out the bandits.
Cecilia: No. Adviser Roartz had been working with Lord Arcard, who's in charge of the mining operation in the Western Isles, and they decided to do it on their own without consulting the king.
Roy: How can they do that?
Cecilia: ... Do you remember last year's tragedy in Etruria?
Roy: Of course. Etruria's next heir, Prince Mildain, suddenly passed away last year.
Cecilia: Right.
Roy: I never had the honor to meet him. I understand that he was a very bright individual.
Cecilia: Yes... If the prince were alive, Etruria wouldn't be like this. King Mordred couldn't bear the fact that his son had died. The shock was so great that he never completely recovered from it. And today, it seems like he's always in a different world, and he doesn't really pay attention to anything going on around him or in his country. Roartz took advantage of this. Now, he's basically in charge of what goes in the palace. Ever since then, he has kept the Three Etrurian Generals, Lord Douglas, Percival, and me, away from the king unless there's a great emergency.
Roy: But what about the time when you came to aid us in Ostia?
Cecilia: That event was an exception because Percival worked with me. But now...
Roy: Please don't worry yourself. We can return to Lycia when we complete this mission anyway. But may I ask you to take care of Lycia while we are away?
Cecilia: Of course. You can leave the Lycia Alliance, and also Princess Guinevere, to me.
Guinevere: Roy... I may not go with you?
Roy: The battles on these islands are likely to become slugfests. You can never know what will happen. I think you should hide in Etruria with protection from General Cecilia.
Cecilia: Your Highness, please trust me. I understand your intentions of suggesting a truce, and I also promised Roy that I would protect you. Trust me, I will defend you at all costs.
Guinevere: ... I understand. I apologize for being selfish. Roy, I pray for your safety.
Roy: Thank you, my Lady. I will pray for yours as well.

@Battle 
Fir: Sir Scott!
Scott: Oh, it's Fir. Sorry I had to call you in.
Fir: What is all this noise about?
Scott: Well you see, some brigands are attacking this island. The people living here are in danger.
Fir: What!
Scott: I sent some guys over to try and stop them, but the invaders are pretty tough. The situation doesn't look good.
Fir: I can't believe...
Scott: If only I could go out there... but I can't leave the castle. So, Fir, I'm sorry, but...
Fir: Yes. I shall go and drive them off.
Scott: Thanks.
Fir: Leave it to me! Attacking innocent villagers... that's not forgivable!
Scott: I asked another guy too, so you can work with him.
Fir: Someone else?
Scott: Yeah, a nomad named Sin. He looks frail, but he's got a decent shot with his bow.

Fir: Are you... Sin?
Sin: That's me. I heard the story from Scott. Let's go.
Fir: .....
Sin: .....
Fir: Um...
Sin: What?
Fir: Um, did you also join the fight to protect the people living here?
Sin: No... I have no such interest in such things.
Fir: Then why?
Sin: I'm paid to fight. That's all.
Fir: .....
Sin: .....
Fir: ... I gotta keep the conversation going.
Fir: Um... you're from Sacae, right?
Sin: Right.
Fir: What took you all the way out here?
Sin: It's nothing new. You look like you're from Sacae, and you're also here.
Fir: Well, I'm traveling around Elibe to train myself, and... Oh, you weren't asking about me, were you...
Sin: .....
Fir: ... Whew.
Sin: ... I'm looking for somebody.
Fir: Who?
Sin: ... My clan lost to Bern when they invaded Sacae.
Fir: ......
Sin: Our clan leader let me escape, and he told me to find and protect his granddaughter. So I left the battlefield to fulfill his request.
Fir: I see... Well, I hope you find her.
Sin: ... Yes.

Bandit: Boss, you sure? I mean, letting a girl like that fight out there...
Scott: Yeah, I know what I'm doing. Once she's killed, we can get that sword she's carrying.
Bandit: Sword? That weird one she has?
Scott: That's no ordinary sword. That's the 'Wo Dao,' a famous katana. If we can get it from her and sell it, it'll be worth a fortune. Hehe...
Bandit: I see. That's why you were so generous to her at first.
Scott: I couldn't make a move up until now, but now's a chance. Listen, I want you to follow her. When you see the chance, grab the sword from her!
Bandit: Sure thing, boss!

@End 
Roy: Merlinus, it looked like the enemy was trying to ambush us...
Merlinus: They must have known we were coming.
Roy: Something must be going on behind the scenes...
Merlinus: Yes. Clearing out the bandits might be harder than we had expected. Ever since Bern started this invasion, something is different with Elibe.
Roy: I wonder what's going to happen from now... Dragons reappearing, Bern's sudden invasion, the collapse of the Lycia Alliance... All of these strange things happening at once. Still, we have to take things one at a time however tedious it may seem.
Merlinus: Now... where do we go from here?
^start 
Roy: How about moving north along the coast?
Merlinus: North... Towards the mines?
Roy: Right. I've heard that the people living on the islands are being forced into labor over there.
Merlinus: So we must rescue them first.
Roy: Yes. Then we might be able to find out who's behind all this.
Merlinus: Well, we must start somewhere.
Roy: All right, then let's head north.

Roy: Let's head west.
Merlinus: West?
Roy: I've heard there's a rebel group based there. They're fighting the bandits to protect the villagers.
Merlinus: I see. So we can visit them and gather some information on what's going on these islands.
Roy: Right. If we just go searching blindly, we won't get anywhere.
Merlinus: I have no objections, Master Roy.
Roy: All right, then let's head west.
^end 

@Recruit-Talk 
%Sue,Sin
Sin: Lady Sue!
Sue: Sin... What are you doing here?
Sin: I was looking for you.
Sue: For me?
Sin: Yes. That was the clan leader's orders.
Sue: ... What happened to our clan after I left?
Sin: I'm sorry, we didn't stand a chance against Bern.
Sue: ... We lost.
Sin: ......
Sue: What has happened to my grandfather?
Sin: He's continuing the struggle against Bern...
Sue: I see...
Sin: I was told by the clan leader to leave and look for you.
Sue: Then will you fight alongside us?
Sin: With you?
Sue: We will be helping Grandfather because this army is fighting against Bern. Also, this army saved my life earlier.
Sin: Understood, my lady. If that is your plan, then I am at your disposal.
Sue: Thank you.

%Noah,Fir 
Noah: Fir! It is you!
Fir: Sir Noah?! What are you doing here?!
Noah: Yes, I joined this army a while back... Whoa!
Noah: What are you thinking?! Put away your sword!
Fir: Sir Noah! I thought you were nobler than this!
Noah: What?
Fir: Just because you're a mercenary knight... Lending your services to pirates?! You should be ashamed!
Noah: ... Huh?
Fir: Don't play dumb! You're working with a band of pirates to attack the people living in this island! And you call yourself a knight?!
Noah: Um, can I have a sec? I think there's a really big misunderstanding...
Fir: Misunderstanding?! You still insist...
Noah: We're trying to help the villagers. We're supposed to go defeat the head of a pirate group. I think his name was Scott or something.
Fir: What? Scott is the head of a pirate band?
Noah: If you think I'm lying, why don't you ask the pirate over here? He's right behind you, hiding in the bushes.
Fir: Pirate? What pirate...
Bandit: Damn! I better go tell the boss!
Fir: Hey! Wait!
Noah: ... You didn't suspect at all?
Fir: No! Scott was really kind to me...
Noah: Really? Rumors say that he's a very cruel man...
Fir: Well, my mother used to say that you shouldn't judge people by their looks...
Noah: Well, that's true, but...
Fir: ... I was lending my services to pirates... What can I do now?
Noah: Then you want to come along with us?
Fir: What? Would it be okay?
Noah: We're always looking for more people to strengthen our army. I'll talk to Roy about it.
Fir: Thank you!

@Boss 
Scott: So the fog didn't stop you after all... But you gotta be pretty beat up by now! I'll finish you off!

Scott: Who the hell... are you? You're no ordinary army..

@Visit 
Village: Eh... The only people here are the women and children. Everyone else, the workers, have gone north to the mines. They aren't even allowed to sleep there, they just work until they die... My brother, who escaped, is as thin as an old man. That day, he drew his last breath. Now that I've told you this... Can you do... er, sorry... I've said too much. Please forget all of this. We're leaving this island now.

Village: You saved us! Are you with the Resistance? No? Then you're just normal good people? Just as you've seen, this island is swarmed with pirates and bandits! But... what are we going to do? Rumors around here say there's a severe battle going on the west. Go ahead and tell them that we're leaving the island...

Village: This area basically belongs to the pirates. They just steal from us all the time. Resistance? That's useless. They can do whatever they want because they have lots of support. We can't fight against them like the resistance forces. 

House: The resistance is doing quite well. In the north, and in the west-- they are always in the thick of battle. Which way will you go?

House: The nearby villages... Everyone in them are leaving the islands. It's very sad, really. If you want to visit, you'd better do it quickly. You don't have time to go to both, so you'll have to decide.

House: Geez, there's so much mist here... In these conditions, you have NO idea if anyone is lurking around! The Torch Staff is useful, even for those hard-eyed thieves.@Opening 
Bern surrendered with King Zephiel’s death. The great war that shook the lands of Elibe was over.

However, Roy’s battle was not.

Roy continued to search for the Dark Priestess, suspecting that she was the Dark Dragon. Following the beam of light emitted by the Divine Weapons, Roy headed for the Dragon Temple.

However, waiting for Roy in front of the temple was General Brunnya, the one remaining Dragon Lord of Bern. She had rounded up Bern’s remaining troops and was waiting to attack Roy. Their pride was at stake.

A battle with the now dead Kingdom of Bern… Roy had a heavy heart at having to battle these “ghosts.”

@Intro 
Brunnya: Lord Jahn, here is Idunn. Please take care of her.
Jahn: What will you do, human?
Brunnya: We will stay here and face the Etrurian Army one last time.
Jahn: Do you have enough troops?
Brunnya: The Dragon Knights scattered around the continent have all returned under our cause.
Jahn: Do you have a chance of victory?
Brunnya: ...Our chances of winning are slim. Still, we are the Bern Army, the strongest standing force on the continent. We shall at the very least show them our unbending will.
Jahn: Will... You humans take actions incomprehensible to us at times. Would your will raise your chances of winning? ...Very well, I suppose. We all have our methods of battle.
Brunnya: ...Have you spread my message?
Soldier: Yes. Those who leave the army now will not be tried for deserting. Whether to fight or to leave is up to each his own.’ That was your message, General Brunnya.
Brunnya: How many still remain with us?
Soldier: Nearly all of the troops are saying that they wish to fight by your side.
Brunnya: All? Our chances of victory are slim. I’m sure many of the troops have families waiting for them. They must not feel pressured to stay.
Soldier: We are knights of Bern, my lady. We have no intention of bowing our heads to Etruria.
Brunnya: ...I want you to expel those who are injured and those who have young children or aged parents. They must not stay here.
Soldier: But General Brunnya...
Brunnya: This is an order. Understood?
 
Elffin: Master Roy, our troops are ready.
Roy: ...Did the messenger return?
Elffin: Yes. ...As we suspected, the enemy has no intention of surrendering.
Roy: Did you make it clear that their safety would be guaranteed if they surrender?
Elffin: Yes. But they said, ‘We appreciate your offer, but we will not surrender.'
Roy: Why? Bern already officially surrendered...
Elffin: This person might understand...
Guinevere: ......
Roy: Princess Guinevere...do you understand why?
Guinevere: Yes. ...Bern recognizes itself as being the strongest force in Elibe. Their pride would not allow them accept defeat without fighting.
Roy: ......
Merlinus: Master Roy! The enemy is advancing!
Roy: ! ...We have no choice. We must fight! Merlinus, send Princess Guinevere to the back lines...
Guinevere: No. I will stay here. I...must hear their calls. That is all that a...traitor like myself can do...

@Battle 
Old Man: M-Master Karel! This will become a battlefield soon...
Karel: So I see. This place is not known to outsiders. I thought I could be free of warfare if I stayed here...
Old Man: What should we do?
Karel: Please do not worry. I will protect the village.
Old Man: Thank you! We have nothing to fear with the Sword Saint on our side.
Karel: I am just an ordinary swordsman. Rumors expand out of proportion with time, so they must not easily be trusted. ...But this battle seems to be bigger than I thought. Is my sister all right...?
Old Man: I never knew you had a sister.
Karel: I haven’t seen her in years, but I heard a while ago that she had fallen ill. I can only hope that she is leading a peaceful life with her husband and daughter...

@Recruit-Visit 
Fir: Uncle!
Karel: That voice... Is it Fir? What are you doing here?
Fir: I never expected to find you here, either, Uncle.
Karel: After traveling around the continent, I decided to settle here. I thought I could train my sword skills peacefully in a quiet place like this...
Fir: Uncle... I must tell you something. Mother...she...
Karel: ...Died?
Fir: Yes...
Karel: ... So she didn’t survive the illness... I’m sorry. I wasn’t there when she needed me the most...
Fir: No...it’s all right.
Karel: But why are you here? You don’t seem like you have been searching for me just to say that.
Fir: Yes. I’m fighting against Bern now.
Karel: You...joined the war?
Fir: I know that you don’t like getting caught up in conflicts like this. But I couldn’t help but try and do something for those people who are suffering because of the war. Uncle...was I wrong? Did I make a mistake? Is this not good for training my sword...?
Karel: No, you have not made any mistakes. The path you choose on your own is never wrong. In fact, I shall assist you from now on.
Fir: Really!?
Karel: Yes. ...You are right. You have grown. The last time I saw you, you were still a toddler.
Fir: Uncle...
 
Bartre: Karel!?
Karel: Bartre? What are you doing here?
Bartre: I am currently enlisted in the Etrurian Army. I didn’t expect to see you here...
Karel: After traveling around the continent, I decided to settle here. I thought I could train my sword skills peacefully in a quiet place like this...
Bartre: ...I must apologize...
Karel: ...Is it about my sister?
Bartre: Yes... I tried my hardest, but...
Karel: She didn’t survive...
Bartre: I am truly sorry. My weakness couldn’t save her...
Karel: It is not your fault. I must apologize. I couldn’t be at her side when she needed me the most...
Bartre: ...I must ask you for something.
Karel: What is that?
Bartre: I want this battle to end. I know you dislike warfare... But would you help us...?
Karel: ...I see. Yes, I will try my hardest.
Bartre: Thank you! We have nothing to fear with such a skilled swordsman on our side!
 
@Visit
Karel: This village has none who would wish to fight. Please leave us in peace.

@Battle-Talk 
%Roy,Karel
Karel: Are you Roy?
Roy: Who are you?
Karel: I am Karel. I hereby have decided to assist your army.
Roy: You’re the Sword Saint... I have heard of your skills. You are most welcome in our ranks.

@Boss 
Brunnya: Bern will not lose! Even if I fall, Bern will rise back up and fight again!

Brunnya: Your...Majesty... Finally...I can go...to your side...

%Melady,Brunnya
Brunnya: Melady... So, you have chosen the path with Princess Guinevere. That is one way... But I have chosen my own path, as you yours. I must fight to defend it!

%Zeis,Brunnya
Brunnya: You are a knight of Bern? So, you have chosen the path with Princess Guinevere. That is one way... But I have chosen my own path, as you yours. I must fight to defend it!

@End 
Roy: This is the Dragon Temple... The Dark Priestess is in here?
Elffin: We can count on that. But...something is bothering me...
Roy: What?
Elffin: In one of the legends of the Scouring, it is said that the Dragon Temple holds the power of the Dragons.
Roy: What does that mean?
Elffin: It is also said that the temple’s power protects the Dragon itself.
Roy: What...? I don’t understand.
Elffin: This is just my estimate, but perhaps it means that the Dragons inside the temple have much greater power than those on the outside.
Roy: So... Our tactics against the Dragons until now might not work?
Elffin: Perhaps... However, if those worthy of using the Divine Weapons use them to their fullest potential, then we may have a chance.
Roy: ...We have no other good ideas. All right. Then we’ll choose those who have the best skill to enter the temple.
Elffin: Be careful who you choose. We might not be able to leave once we’re inside...
@Opening 
After defeating Martel and finding their way out of the forest, The Etrurian Army faced the blizzards common of Ilia’s winters.

Ilia’s harsh climate was a natural defense in itself against invaders. Sigune, flightleader of the Pegasus Knights that had turned to Bern, was preparing to attack Roy, coupled with Ilia’s greatest natural weapon.

@Intro 
Soldier: Captain! The enemy has arrived. They are on the other side of the mountain.
Sigune: So, they’ve arrived. ...The battle will start soon.
Soldier: Captain, are you sure?
Sigune: About what?
Soldier: The Etrurian Army is saying that will liberate us from Bern. In that case, we could gain independence...
Sigune: Do you really believe what they say? What idiot would fight a war for the sake of others? Once they defeat Bern, they’ll just establish themselves as the next dictator.
Soldier: Well...
Sigune: Then it’s better to be with Bern. They’re better at warfare.
Soldier: ......
Sigune: Come now, we have more immediate problems. We’ve got to get rid of the enemy that’s right in front of us first. Are the ballistas ready?
Soldier: Yes. The archers are all at their stations.
Sigune: Good! Shoot at them from a distance... They’ll be floundering around in the dark in this powerful blizzard. Observe nature’s wrath...
 
Roy: Such strong wind and hail... I can’t see three meters in front of me.
Niime: Ilia’s winters are always like this. This is expected if you’re fighting a battle at this time of the year.
Roy: We must attack now so that Bern doesn’t have the time to recover.
Niime: That’s true. It would be a disaster if the Dark Dragon really was brought back into this world.
Roy: I was thinking... Maybe the Dark Dragon is in human form as well.
Niime: Perhaps. Maybe all the Dragons are in human form now. I’ve also heard stories of Dragons in human form living with people.
Roy: Arcadia...
Niime: Hm? Did you say something?
Roy: No, nothing.
Niime: I don’t know anything specific, but I’ve read in an ancient scroll that Dragons started taking human form only after the Ending Winter.
Roy: The Ending Winter...
Niime: You’ve heard about it, right?
Roy: Yes, only in legend. ‘At the Winder of Ends, the laws of nature were turned upside down. Day became night, and summer became winter.'
Niime: That’s it. These scrolls are so old and damaged so I couldn’t decipher all of them, but one thing is clear. The Ending Winter was a disaster powerful enough to bend and twist the planet.
Roy: What caused it?
Niime: Who knows... Popular belief says that the laws of nature were twisted when the Dragons unleashed vast amounts of magical power, but I have no idea about what really happened. But it does seem certain that Dragons started taking human form after the Ending Winter. It must be more than coincidence.
Roy: Yes, I agree.
Niime: Well, either way, the truth lies in Bern.

@Battle 
Soldier: Captain! Other Pegasus Knight squads are headed this way to assist us!
Sigune: Really? That would help. Too bad for the enemy... They’ll be in a panic if they suddenly get attacked from all directions when they can’t see in this snowstorm...

@Boss 
Sigune: So...you made it through this blizzard and cold? Congratulations. But it’s over. You shall end...right here, right now.

Sigune: ...Well, well... So I’m the one...to die... But maybe...I had already died...a long time...ago...

%Shanna,Sigune
Sigune: You... You’re Juno’s youngest sister. You would fight me?
Shanna: ......
Sigune: By the honor of an Ilian knight... I won’t go easy on you. All right?
Shanna: Yes...

%Thea,Sigune
Sigune: Thea? What are you doing here? Oh...you’ve joined the Etrurian side.
Thea: Captain Sigune...
Sigune: You know the Ilian knightly code. I won’t go easy on you.

@End 
Roy: Merlinus, I need you to send this letter to Bishop Yoder in Etruria.
Merlinus: A letter? May I ask what it says?
Roy: It’s the story we heard from Niime about the Dragons.
Merlinus: Oh? What did you discuss with her about the Dragons?
Roy: It’ll be long if I tell you. I haven’t sealed the letter yet, so you can look through it if you want.
Merlinus: All right. Let me see...
Guinevere: ......
Roy: Is something wrong, Princess Guinevere?
Guinevere: ...I have come to speak about my brother.
Roy: ! ...Are you sure?
Guinevere: Yes... I want you to know before we enter Bern...about the tragedies that have occurred. You asked earlier if my brother murdered the former king.
Roy: Yes...
Guinevere: In short...it is true.
Roy: ! Then King Zephiel indeed killed his own father to seize the throne...
Guinevere: No!
Roy: No? He didn’t kill his father to get the throne?
Guinevere: No... Our father was the one who tried to kill Zephiel first.
Roy: What!? Then King Zephiel...
Guinevere: He...couldn’t bear the abuse he was taking from our father. And so he...
Roy: What... Why did...
Merlinus: The Dragons are indeed are mysterious species... Hm? What is the matter?
Guinevere: No...it is nothing. Perhaps later...
Merlinus: ...Did I appear at a bad time?
Roy: No, it’s okay. Did you send the letter?
Merlinus: Yes. I read through it, then sealed it and had it sent.
Roy: Oh... All right, thanks.
Roy: ...Why did the former king try to murder his own son...?
@Opening 
The coup d’etat at Aquleia quickly spread out to the rest of Etruria. Calling themselves the Revolutionaries, the coup d’etat forces sought to ally with Bern and divide rulership of Elibe.

Cecilia escaped from Aquleia with Guinevere. Forming an anti-coup d’etat militia called the Loyalists, she traveled around Etruria, fighting the Revolutionaries.

However, the Revolutionaries had Bern on their side. With King Mordred taken hostage, Great General Douglas and Knight General Percival were also forced to join the Revolutionaries. With these powerful allies, the Revolutionaries slowly began to push the Loyalists out of Etruria. Eventually, the Loyalists were driven into an old castle on Misul Peninsula.

After locating Cecilia, Roy headed for Misul. Meanwhile, the Loyalists were under joint attack by the Revolutionaries and Bern’s troops. It would only be a matter of time before the Loyalists were defeated…

@Intro 
Narcian: Flaer! Hasn’t the castle gone down yet!?
Flaer: General Narcian, the Loyalists led by General Cecilia are fighting harder than we had anticipated...
Narcian: Cecilia...! That bitch again! Always interfering with my plans...!
Zephiel: I see you are having trouble, Narcian.
Idunn: ......
Narcian: Y-Your Majesty!? When...did you arrive?
Zephiel: Just now. The general from Etruria fights well, I see.
Narcian: Y-Yes... But fear not, I shall force her into submission...
Zephiel: No, let me. I will fight her myself.
Idunn: Your Majesty, there is no reason for you to fight...
Zephiel: No matter, I need the exercise. Narcian, show me to her.
 
Roy: What’s the story?
Merlinus: The castle hasn’t fallen yet, Master Roy.
Roy: Good! But we still have to hurry.

@Battle
Zephiel: So... You are Cecilia, the Sorcery General.
Cecilia: !! ...King Zephiel...
Zephiel: For your prowess in battle, you have the honor to fight me one on one.
Cecilia: ... !!
Cecilia: Too...powerful...
Zephiel: Down already? I would have expected more.
Narcian: Your Majesty! Invincible as always.
Zephiel: I suppose this is all one can expect from an Etrurian General.
Narcian: Your Majesty... If you would allow it, may I have her?
Zephiel: Hm?
Narcian: I have some certain...bad memories with this woman. I want to punish her for them.
Zephiel: Hmph, very well. Do with her as you wish.
Narcian: Thank you very much, Your Majesty. You there, make one of the prison cells ready.
Soldier: Yes, General Narcian.

Percival: What? Bern is attacking the castle?
Soldier: Yes, General Percival.
Percival: ...This isn’t what they promised. They said that they would leave Etrurian matters to us Etrurians.
Soldier: What should we do?
Percival: Was it General Narcian who commanded the attack?
Soldier: No, sir. It was King Zephiel himself.
Percival: ! The king himself... So, Bern had no intention of entrusting anything to us in the first place... We aren’t going to move right now. Tell everyone to remain at their posts.
Soldier: Yes, sir.
 
Roy: The castle fell?
Merlinus: Yes... We were too late.
Roy: Is General Cecilia all right?
Merlinus: There is no report that she was killed, but probably...
Roy: Well, if there’s still a possibility that she’s alive, then I won’t give up. We have to hurry!

Narcian: Your Majesty! We have found Princess Guinevere.
Zephiel: Bring her to me.
Guinevere: Zephiel...
Zephiel: Guinevere. So good to see you.
Guinevere: Zephiel, why? Why did you start this war... Why are you killing innocent people?
Zephiel: Innocent, you say? Hmph, jealousy, vanity, greed... People have been fighting over such rubbish in any nation. And you call them innocent?
Guinevere: Well...
Zephiel: The world must liberated from such pointless things that men fight over. That is the purpose of this war.
Guinevere: But...people are being brutally killed in the process.
Zephiel: No radical change can come about without sacrifice.
Guinevere: Zephiel...!
Zephiel: Guinevere, you are my only sister. Therefore, I will forgive you this time. But not the next. Do you understand?
Guinevere: ......
Zephiel: Narcian! Wasn’t the leader of Guinevere’s guards here?
Narcian: Yes. Her name is Melady.
Zephiel: Very well. Tell her to escort Guinevere back to Bern. Also tell her to make sure that the Fire Emblem is returned to the Temple of Seals.
Narcian: Yes, Your Majesty.
Guinevere: Zephiel...

Guinevere: Melady...
Melady: Princess Guinevere, I am glad to see you safe. Now, let us return to Bern on my mount... ...Princess?
Guinevere: Melady!
Melady: Wh-What are you doing!? Please put down that sword before you are hurt!
Guinevere: Melady, please! Let me go.
Melady: ! ...Should I oblige, what would you do next?
Guinevere: ...I understand that Roy of the Lycia Alliance Army is near here...
Melady: !? You would join the enemy!?
Guinevere: If we don’t do something, Elibe will be overrun by Bern’s forces... No matter what kind of reasoning my brother gives, what he is doing is obvious. He is forcing others into submission through power. I cannot agree that that will lead to anything good...
Melady: ......
Guinevere: Melady... Please. Let me go.
Melady: ...There is one thing...
Guinevere: ?
Melady: There is one thing that I cannot forgive you for, Princess. When you left Bern earlier, why did you not come to consult me...?
Guinevere: Well... I thought that your reputation would be damaged, so...
Melady: ! Did you think that I would prioritize my reputation above you? I am your loyal knight more than I am a knight of Bern. That has not changed ever since I was knighted.
Guinevere: Melady...
Melady: If you told me to let you go, then I would follow your order with pleasure.
Guinevere: Melady... Thank you.
 
Melady: Please, halt your attacks! I am not an enemy!
Roy: What? Everyone, lower your weapons!
Merlinus: Master Roy, she may be lying...
Roy: She may be a messenger. Killing a messenger goes against the knight’s code.
Merlinus: ......
Melady: Are you General Roy?
Roy: ...Yes. And you are?
Guinevere: Roy!
Roy: Princess Guinevere!? You were safe.
Guinevere: Yes... I escaped with her assistance.
Melady: My name is Melady.
Guinevere: Roy, General Cecilia is alive.
Roy: R-Really?
Guinevere: Yes, she is alive, although she is severely wounded. She is being held captive in the castle.
Roy: Thank you! We have to rescue her!

Zephiel: Are they ready?
Idunn: Yes. The Dragons are prepared to fight at your command.
Zephiel: Narcian, I will give you some Dragons to fortify your militia. I want you to send some of your forces to Nabata.
Narcian: Nabata? The desert lands located at the center of this peninsula?
Zephiel: Right. I hear that there is a hidden village in which Dragons have been staying ever since the Scouring.
Narcian: I see... Then there is a high chance that a Divine Weapon is hidden there.
Zephiel: Exactly. It must not fall into the hands of the enemy. I already sent some troops to start the attack, but they are outnumbered.
Narcian: Understood, Your Majesty. I shall send some mercenaries and Dragons there at once.
Zephiel: Good. You can also take the girl we captured in Nabata. She’s a Shaman from the hidden village. You can pry more information out of her if you need to.
Narcian: Yes, Your Majesty. I shall have the village taken in no time.
Zephiel: ...I shall remember those words.
Narcian: Of course!
 
Cecilia: ...Oh... Where am I... ...!
Sophia: You’re still not well... You shouldn’t move...
Cecilia: Did you treat my wounds?
Sophia: ...Yes... But I’m not...used to treating wounds... Perhaps...I didn’t do a good job...
Cecilia: Yes, you did. Thank you. We must find a way out of here... ...Ow...!
Sophia: You shouldn’t move... The wound...will open again...
Cecilia: But I must do something...
Sophia: It will be all right... I can see...a light...that will soon be here to help us...
Cecilia: Light?
Sophia: Yes... That light...will aid us both... We must wait for it...
Cecilia: Who are you...?
Sophia: I am Sophia... A priestess of Arcadia...
Cecilia: Arcadia?
Sophia: I shall tell you more about it...later... For now...please trust me...
 
Soldier: Yes, what is it, General Percival?
Percival: We’re leaving.
Soldier: What? Are you sure?
Percival: Bern’s behavior is clearly an act of insult to Etruria. I cannot aid Bern any further. We will return to Aquleia and inform Lord Douglas of this matter. Retreat at once!
Soldier: Yes, sir!

Flaer: General Narcian! It’s them! The Lycia Alliance Army!
Narcian: What!? Flaer! I thought you had taken care of them at Djuto!
Flaer: I did! Well...I left a Dragon to deal with them, so... I never thought that they had survived!
Narcian: What!? You fool, then my reputation as your officer is also in jeopardy! If I let the Lycia Alliance Army live here, people will start to suspect my ability... I must do something... ...But, they defeated a Dragon. They seem to be tougher than I expected.
Flaer: General Narcian... What should we do...?
Narcian: I have no choice... Flaer, I will return to Aquleia and plan an attack on the Alliance Army. You stay here.
Flaer: ! M-Me... Stay here?
Narcian: You don’t have to defeat them. I just want you to hit them as hard as you can and decrease their numbers.
Flaer: General Narcian! You would use me as a cannon-fodder!?
Narcian: Flaer... To tell you the truth, you would have been executed a long time ago when you failed to defend Djuto. I’m giving you a chance to prove your worth again. You should be grateful. Hehehe...
Flaer: But!
Narcian: Or do you want me to carry out your execution right here?
Flaer: ...! ...Yes...sir... Understood.
Narcian: Good. Then I’ll leave the rest to you.

@Recruit-Talk 
%Elffin,Percival
Elffin: Percival. It is good to see you again.
Percival: !! You...
Elffin: Have you forgotten my face?
Percival: No...it cannot be. The prince...is dead.
Elffin: ...I understand your confusion. After all, a man who was pronounced dead is now standing before your very eyes.
Percival: Prince Mildain! You were alive...?
Elffin: I have troubled you for a long time now. ...It has been over a year since I was assassinated.
Percival: Assassinated!? Your Majesty, did you not fall off your horse in an accident?
Elffin: No. I was shot with a poisoned arrow. First to my horse...and then to me.
Percival: No...
Elffin: Douglas noticed first and made it public that I had been killed. A different corpse was placed in the coffin, and everything was set up as if the assassination had been successful. Douglas then entrusted me to his adopted daughter and let me escape to the Western Isles.
Percival: Lord Douglas did that...
Elffin: Even after I escaped to the west, I suffered from a high fever caused by the poison for many months. I was hovering between life and death so long that Douglas’ daughter gave up hope countless times.
Percival: ......
Elffin: The rebel forces helped me by giving me medicine. Ironic, isn’t it? The very rebels who were fighting against the Etrurian court had saved the life the prince himself!
Percival: ......
Elffin: I recovered...slowly. And then I saw the horrors being committed by the Etrurian nobles on the Isles. I was ashamed that I had not noticed when I was still residing on the throne.
Percival: Your Majesty...
Elffin: While aiding the rebels, I was looking for a chance to return to the mainland. Then General Roy came along, and I saw my chance. And that is how I ended up here.
Percival: Prince... I am truly thankful that you returned alive.
Elffin: I am with the Lycia Alliance Army right now, but I still must hide my true identity. And if I still have the loyalty that you pledged to me in the past...
Percival: I am at your service, Your Majesty. My master is only one, and he is you, Prince Mildain.

%Larum,Percival
Larum: General Percival! It is you, isn’t it? I was looking for you! I am...
Larum: Wait! Wait! Stop your horse! Listen to me!
Percival: Who are you?
Larum: Don’t you know!? I thought we’d met before.
Percival: ...I sort of recall seeing you at Lord Douglas’ manor...
Larum: Yes! That’s me. You do know me, then!
Percival: But the girl I saw there was a little more...ordinary.
Larum: What’s that supposed to mean? Ah, no matter. Anyway, my name is Larum. I’m here under the command of Prince Mildain.
Percival: Prince Mildain...? Don’t be daft. The prince was killed in an accident the year before.
Larum: Well... Look at this!
Percival: !! That emblem... It belongs to the prince...!
Larum: Now do I have your attention? Then take a look at this letter, too. The prince told me to give it to you.
Percival: ...... This is the prince’s handwriting... So he is alive! Then I hesitate no more. If the prince has joined the Lycia Alliance Army, then I must do the same.
Larum: Wha-? That was quick... I was hoping things to get more dramatic... Like, ‘If you’re still going to stand against us, then you’re going to cut me down first!’ or something like that...

@Boss 
Flaer: Damn…! But I am a knight of Bern! I shall never surrender!

Flaer: Remember this… There are…plenty of warriors greater than I… Bern’s army shall annihilate you…for sure…

@End 
Roy: General Cecilia!
Cecilia: Roy... I have made a fool out of myself in front of you.
Roy: No, of course not! I am relieved that you are alive... But what of your wounds? Are you all right?
Cecilia: Yes. This girl treated them for me.
Roy: And you are?
Sophia: I am Sophia... A priestess of Arcadia...
Cecilia: She prophesized that you would be coming. Now, you said you would tell us more once we were safe...
Sophia: Yes... Arcadia...our home...lies to the east...in the Nabata Desert... We tried to stay hidden...but Bern found us... And...
Roy: They attacked you?
Sophia: Yes... I was too slow...so I was captured...
Roy: I see... But why would Bern be interested in a little hidden village like yours?
Sophia: I...do not know... Perhaps...they found out...about the Dragons that live in Arcadia...
Roy: Dragons!?
Sophia: Yes... Arcadia...was built a long time ago...by Dragons and people who wished to live together...
Roy: Such a place existed...?
Sophia: Master Roy... Please, save our village...!
Merlinus: But the story does seem a bit unbelievable...
Sophia: ......
Roy: ...In any case, it’s probably true that her village is under attack by Bern. We should help them. We owe Sophia anyway because she helped General Cecilia.
Sophia: ...Thank you...
Roy: Then, can you tell us more about your village and the Dragons?
Sophia: Yes... I will gladly tell you what I know...
 
Soldier: General Percival, until further instructions are given, we will station ourselves in this castle and prepare for further attacks from the Revolutionaries.
Percival: Good.
Soldier: Here, we found this in the castle. Please take it. General Percival, please take care...of Etruria.
Percival: I know. Leave it to me.
Soldier: Yes!
@Opening 
Following Elffin's lead, Roy headed for the cave near Jutes to find the Divine Weapon hidden there. Little did they know that they weren't the only ones who knew about the cave...

@Intro 
Gelero: This is the end of the caaave? Treasuuure… Where are yooouu…? Answer meee...
Bandit 1: Boss... Are you sure about this? The men from Bern just told us to block the entrance. If they catch us now, they'll surely have us back in chains!
Gelero: You foooool! We'll do as we're told in tiiime… They'll never know that we took the treasuuure… If we block the entrance without taking the treasure, it's all the same anywaaay… Do you really want that poor treasure trapped in here for all eternityyy?
Bandit 1: Well. when you put it that way... I guess you're right.
Bandit 2: Boss! There's an army stationed outside the cave!
Gelero: Whaaat? They want to take our treasure, do theeey? Have the boys near the entrance take them ooouut… And grab all the treasure cheeests… We rightfully stole them fiiirst!

Roy: A legendary weapon lies in this cave...? It's so dark in here.
Elffin: According to the scholar in Jutes I spoke to, the legendary weapon in this cave is most likely the Tunder Axe, Armads.
Roy: Armads… An axe this time.
Elffin: Armads was wielded by Durban the Berserker, who was said to be a colossus of a man. A single blow from his axe surely made short work of any opponent.
Roy: Elffin, you seem to know a lot about the Eight Legends and their weapons
Elffin: I'm a bard. It is my job to know myths and legends.
Roy: I'd like to hear some of them when we have the time.
Elffin: Of course. ...Lord Roy, it seems we are not alone in this cave.
Roy: We aren't?
Elffin: There are also noxious fumes coming from the cave walls. We must tread lightly.

@End
Roy: Where is the legendary weapon?
Elffin: Hmm... I hear wind blowing from behind the throne.
Roy: What? I can't hear it... A niche... between the floor and the wall. Oh! It opened! ...So this is the legendary weapon? This axe is enormous.
Elffin: Armads… The very axe wielded by Durban the Berserker. It certainly appears fit for a warrior of his stature.

Soldier: R-report! I have a message from Etruria... A revolution has broken out in Aquleia, the capital of Etruria.
Merlinus: What?!
Soldier: The ones leading the revolution are High Chancellor Roartz and Lord Arcard. They have captured King Mordred. They also say they plan to divided dominion of the continent between Bern and Etruria!
Merlinus: The two strongest nations in Elibe joining forces...
Roy: Is General Cecilia all right?! And what of Princess Guinivere...
Soldier: We don't have any current information... But the three Etrurian Generals have parted ways and are working separately. Mage General Cecilia has fled Aquleia for the Missur Peninsula in the southwest.
Roy: And the other Generals?
Soldier: They're with the revolutionaries against their will because the king was taken hostage.
Merlinus: Lord Roy...
Roy: We need to contact General Cecilia... Princess Guinivere… Please be safe...@Opening 
Three seperate islands: Fibernia, Caldonia, and Dia. All of these islands are rich in minerals, and mining is the economic backbone. The largest mine located in Eburacum, in north of Fibernia. Roy leads his forces toward Eburacum hoping to learn more about the bandits. To get to Eburacum, one must pass a castle located nearby. Roy sends a messenger to Sir Nord, lord of the castle, to resuqest permission to pass through his lands. Because Roy and company are in Isles on Etruria's request, they don't anticipate trouble in gaining Nord's support. But not everything is as simple as it appears...

@Intro 
Nord: What can you tell me about that spy from the resistance?
Soldier: You mean the dancer called Larum? We threw her in the dungeon, sire.
Nord: Has she told you anything?
Soldier: No. She keeps insisting that she's not affiliated with the resistance.
Nord: A liar, is she? Perhaps I could interrogate her myself...
Soldier: Sir Nord!
Nord: What is it?
Soldier: There is a messenger here from the Lycian Army.
Nord: Ah, the army that was sent to clean up tthe bandits on the Isles.
Soldier: It seems that they want permission to pass through to Eburacum.
Nord: ...Lord Arcard told us to get rid of the Lycian Army in their time here. Heh heh heh... If we impress Lord Arcard he may see fit to reward us. Desploy the troops and finish them here!
Soldier: Yes, sire... And the messenger?
Nord: Kill him.
Soldier: Understood, sire.
Nord: Be sure to deploy the ballista. Use it to defeat the Lycian Army before they even reach you.
Soldier: Yes, sire.
Nord: Just make sure the enemy doesn't get hold of it!

Merlinus: Lord Roy, soldiers are flowing out from the castle.
Roy: Are there bandits around here?
Merlinus: No, they seem to be heading towards us, actually.
Roy: ...What about the messenger?
Merlinus: He hasn't returned... Which may mean the worst...
Roy: He hasn't returned? Why is Sir Nord attack us?
Merlinus: The enemy draws near... Lord Roy, what are your orders?
Roy: ...I guess we have no choice but to fight. We might learn something if we can reach the castle.
Merlinus: Yes, milord. You're right.
Roy: All right, storm the castle! But have mercy! Some of their soldiers may be willing to listen!

@Battle 
Woman: Geese... You're really leaving?
Geese: The lord of that castle killed my mates. I won't let their deaths be unavenged.
Woman: You mean that crew that was always with you...
Geese: Yeah... They were taken to the mines and told that they would be given work. But they were all worked like slaves until they... died.
Woman: ......
Geese: Maybe they weren't the brightest bunch, but they were good people... And they were killed... just like that...!!
Woman: Do you intend to avenge them on your own?
Geese: Is there something wrong with that?
Woman: No... But I thought you were going to go back to your merchant business.
Geese: Yeah, well, I've got bigger problems now... Once my mates get their revenge, and once the war subsides, maybe I will.
Woman: ...We won't forget you, Geese. You and your crew risked your lives to get us food and supplies. If you ever need anything, we'll be here.
Geese: Maybe I'll take you up on that, if I'm still alive. ...Thanks.

Geese: Yeah? What? You got something to say to me?
Roy: I want to ask you why you're fighting against the soldiers.
Geese: Who wants to know?
Roy: Roy, leader of the Lycian Army. We're here on behalf of Etruria...
Geese: You're with Etruria?! Then you're the enemy. Get ready to die!
Roy: Slow down! We're fighting the castle's troops too.
Geese: And yet Etruria sent you? I don't understand.
Roy: I don't either. We were sent by Etruria to get rid of bandits here, but something's strange.
Geese: ...You say you're fighting the castle's troops. I'm for hire, if you'll take me.
Roy: What?
Geese: I'm a seafaring man, so I know both the land and sea around the Isles. You look a bit lost, so I could be a good guide for you.
Roy: That would help, but why?
Geese: I want to help with your mission. To be honest, I'm a pirate, so I'm probably the type you were sent to get rid of. But I only go after the rich. They have more than their fair share anyway.
Roy: Well then, if you'll join us, we're pleased to have you. We don't know this area at all, so it's been difficult thus far.
Geese: Sounds like we have a deal! Leave it to me!
Geese: ...This is it, lads. Can you taste it? You'll have your vengeance. And after you do, I might just tag along with this Roy fellow for a while...

Nord: Gonzalez! Gonzalez, where are you?!
Gonzalez: Here... I here...
Nord: There's a village to the north, right along the mountain. Do you understand?
Gonzalez: Understand.
Nord: It may be a resistance base. I want you to go and burn it to the ground, village and all.
Gonzalez: Village and all...
Nord: Good. You understand. This is the only use I have for a lump such as you. Now get goung, you halfwit, before you forget your orders.
Gonzalez: I...I...
Nord: Forget how to speak? Are you trying to say something?
Gonzalez: N-no...
Nord: Such a monsterous face, and yet such a needlessly compassionate heart. He will learn the value of destroying a village firsthand!

@Recruit-Talk 
%Lilina,Gonzalez
Lilina: Excuse me!
Gonzalez: W-what you doing?! I am enemy!
Lilina: I know... But there's such a look of sorrow in your eyes.
Gonzalez: ...There is a village near mountain. You know?
Lilina: Yes, I know it.
Gonzalez: Tell people escape. I have order. Destroy village. I...
Lilina: What? Don't! The villagers are innocent...
Gonzalez: No. It order. I must.
Lilina: It sounds to me like you should leave the person who gave you that order.
Gonzalez: Leave?
Lilina: Yes! You can fight with us. We're protecting the villagers.
Gonzalez: No... I monster... People mean to me... People throw stones... People say "Go away!"... "You a monster!"... Not human...
Lilina: That's horrible! Of course you're human! You're a very kind-hearted man. I can tell. Please, come with us. Don't be afraid.
Gonzalez: Me afraid? I never afraid! Everyone afraid of ME! I not afraid!
Lilina: No. You ARE afraid. You're afraid that people will throw stones and call you a monster.
Gonzalez: ......
Lilina: But you don't have to be afraid of us. Everyone in our army is nice. They won't do that to you. Be brave... Take that first step, and you'll never have to be afraid again.

@Boss 
Nord: You made it all the way here. But I shall take your pathetic lives...

Nord: Death? I feel...my life...draining...away...

@Visit 
Woman: I'm worried about Larum. I hope she's all right. She smuggled us weapons so we could defend ourselves. Even when we begged her to hide, she refused and kept helping us. Here's an axe that she brought us. It's a strange one... It's strong against swords, but weak against lances! I'd gladly trade it for her safety, though, so please, take it... 

Old woman: Brigands and pirates... They were all just as innocent as anyone when they were young. Maybe if you spoke to some of them, you could make them understand.

@End 
Merlinus: Lord Roy... We couldn't find any evidence explaining Sir Nord's aggression.
Roy: But now we know for certain that somebody wants our heads.
Merlinus: I think we should contact Etruria about this.
Roy: Yes, I'll send a message to General Cecilia.
Soldier: Excuse me, Lord Roy. We found a girl imprisoned in the dungeon. She wishes to speak with you.
Roy: To me? Let her pass.
Soldier: Yes, milord.
Larum: You're Roy? The one who's here to clear out the bandits?
Roy: Yes, that's me.
Larum: I beg you, Roy! Please rescue my friends!
Roy: Whoa, easy there!
Merlinus: Hey! Get off of him!
Roy: C-calm down and tell me everything. You say your friends are in danger?
Larum: My name is Larum. I'm part of the resistance force on the Isles.
Roy: The force that's fighting against the bandits?
Larum: Yes. ...Actually, no!
Roy: No?
Larum: That's part of it, but the real enemy is Etruria! They work with the bandits to squeeze every bit they can out of the people here!
Roy: What?! Is that true?!
Larum: The lords living here take people into the mines and work them to death!! They're allowed no rest, even if they're sick or injured.
Roy: ...That's terrible...
Larum: We're fighting Etruria to stop the abuse! Our next plan was to attack the mine at Eburacum and rescue the people there! But...but...!
Roy: Calm down! You can tell me.
Larum: A villager here leaked the details of the plan! He was probably tortured... I have to go to the mines before the resistance is ambushed!
Roy: Then there's no time to spare! We'll backup the resistance force and rescue the people being forced into labor!
Larum: Truly, you will?! Thank you, Roy!
Roy: Whoa! L-Larum!
Merlinus: Hey! I said get off of him!
Larum: Here, Roy. Use this sword.
Roy: What is it?
Larum: It's called a wyrmslayer. It's effective against wyvern riders, and it's said it was used against dragons, too. Who can say, though? It might come in handy. It belongs to Echidna, the leader of the resistance. You're helping us though, so you can have it for now.@Opening 
Hearing of the rebellion, Roy hurried his pace towards Ostia. According to the information he had gathered on the way, General Leygance, one of Lord Hector's advisors, had started a rebellion with Liutenant Devias to sell Ostia to Bern. Lilina had been captured and taken hostage by Leygance. She was then imprisoned inside Castle Ostia, because Leygance thought that he could use her for something later on.

Hearing that report, Roy and company entered Ostia in an effort to rescure Lilina. Ostia, the largest and most active city in Lycia, was to become a battlefield, stained with blood...

@Intro 
Leygance: Devias, how is the city doing? 
Devias: They've been quiet so far, sir. But the mercenary knights from Ilia that Hector hired are showing no submission. 
Leygance: Hmph! What's wrong with them? We're telling them we'll pay more! 
Devias: Well, Ilia's mercenary knights are known never to betray their masters. 
Leygance: You fool! I know that! General Narcian is going to arrive soon! If we don't have Ostia under our control by then, he'll laugh at us! 
Devias: O-of course, sir. 
Leygance: We may have to use Lilina to bargain with the mercenary knights... If we use her as a hostage, they should surrender to us. But that must be a last resort. We will fight them ourselves with the help of Dragon Knights sent from Bern to crush Ilia's forces!! Devias, I want you to clear out the town and guard the castle gate. I will defend the inside of our castle. 
Devias: Yes sir!

Roy: Merlinus! Around how many of Ostia's troops have joined the rebellion? 
Merlinus: Quite a few, I'm afraid. They have forgotten their loyalty towards Lord Hector, and are simply flocking towards the one with more power, which is Bern. How disgraceful! 
Roy: I see... 
Merlinus: But there is good news too, Master Roy! There is a band of mercenary knights from Ilia that are willing to join forces with us and attack the rebels. 
Guinevere: Mercenary knights from Ilia? 
Merlinus: Yes. They said that they signed a contract with Lord Hector that they would fight Bern alongside Ostia's troops. 
Roy: That's fortunate. But when the mercenary knights hear the news that Lord Hector has passed away, that contract would probably be broken. Do you think it's possible for us to officially hire them into our service? 
Merlinus: I would have thought so too, Master Roy. However, they already knew of Lord Hector's death. They offered to fight alongside us anyway. 
Guinevere: Why do they go that far, when they are mercenaries? 
Merlinus: Ilia is a snowy area with a harsh temperature so the land isn't very arable. Therefore, sending out mercenaries to fight for pay is one of Ilia's main sources of economic input. I've also heard that mercenaries from Ilia put trust over anything else and that they never betray their employers. The rumors are true, I see. 
Roy: Then they should be powerful allies. 
Merlinus: Yes! Fortune is still with us, Master Roy! But... I heard from the mercenary knights that one of the Three Dragon Lords is coming here with a legion of Dragon Knights. If they should join the rebels, then our chances of defeating them would become extremely slim. 
Guinevere: Roy, what are you going to do? 
Roy: ... The Kingdom of Etruria might join us. 
Guinevere: Etruria?! Would that be possible? 
Roy: General Cecilia, the Sorcery General of Etruria was my teacher in battle arts while I was studying in Ostia. I have a feeling she would be willing to join forces with us. 
Merlinus: I would object, Master Roy! If we depend on Etruria to solve our own matters in Lycia, we'll be sure to be their laughing stock for decades! 
Roy: Yes, I know that... But this is truly an important matter for Lycia. I think that we should go for the safest and most definite option rather than worry about the consequences and do nothing, which would most likely lead to the extinction of Lycia. 
Merlinus: ... Lord Roy. 
Roy: We have to move quickly! I'll write a letter to General Cecilia. Merlinus, I need you to get the letter to her as quickly as possible. 
Merlinus: ... Yes, Lord Roy! You are right. I shall send the letter to her as soon as you are ready. 
Roy: Thanks. All right, everybody! Let's retake Ostia!

@Battle 
Zelots: It looks like the Lycia Alliance have started attacking the rebels. All right, we're going too. Let's go and drive off the rebel forces! 
Trec: Will do, sir. 
Zelots: Wait, where's Noah? 
Trec: Ummm, I think he went to the arena a while ago. He said he's coaching a young girl in the sword arts.
Zelots: That Noah, a coach? That's unusual... Well, no matter. Once he finds out we're attacking the rebels, he'll catch up to us.
Trec: Yup.
Zelots: All right, let's go.

Noah: Looks like they've started attacking the rebels. Well then, Fir, I should get going soon.
Fir: Thank you for coaching me, Sir Noah.
Noah: No problem. But I must say you surprised me. You suddenly came up to me and said, "I want to fight a match with you!"
Fir: I-I'm sorry, Sir Noah. It was my first time in the arena...
Noah: If you asked another person, you would have been killed. You need to look your opponent over very carefully before choosing to fight.
Fir: And you must not hesitate to surrender if it looks like you're going to lose. Right?
Noah: Exactly. You can always win back your money, but if you lose your life, it's all over.
Fir: Yes!
Noah: What are your plans now? Are you going to stay here and work on your sword skills?
Fir: No. I'm planning to travel to the Western Isles.
Noah: The Western Isles? Why?
Fir: They're building a new mine there, and I heard that a lot of people are going there looking for work. They must be strong people if they're miners, so I thought it would be the ideal place to find people to fight for my training. And besides...
Noah: Besides?
Fir: The Western Isles is where my mother first met my father. She's dead now, but when she was my age she was also traveling around the world training her sword skills.
Noah: I see... You surprise me again.
Fir: ?
Noah: All you were saying at first was, "I want to become strong, I want to become strong," right? So I thought swordplay was all you had interest in. But you were training because you wanted to be like your mother? I'm so happy that you do have a cute side!
Fir: What? ... Sir Noah! Please don't tease me!
Noah: Hahahaha!

Devias: The reinforcements should be arriving from the south soon. Hehe... That Lycia army'll be shocked when they get hit from behind!

@End
Roy: Okay, the city should be under control by now. Now we have to recapture Castle Ostia and rescue Lilina!
Merlinus: Master Roy, we are currently breaking down the gate to enter the castle. I understand that you want to get in quickly, but we are working as fast as we can, so please be patient!
Roy: ... Lilina.
Merlinus: Speaking of Lady Lilina... What do you think of Lord Hector's story, Master Roy?
Roy: You mean about the Dragons? They weren't myth, they were real... Lord Hector is one of the greatest battle tacticians in Lycia. And his army was decimated in such a short time...
Merlinus: Well, Bern's army is among the strongest in Elibe. I say, those Dragon Knights are indeed very formidable opponents.
Roy: Of course the Dragon Knights must have been tough enemies. But the real Dragons... I can't even imagine how powerful they must be. The weapons that are effective against Dragons... I wonder where they are?
Merlinus: I presume they must be the Divine Weapons.
Roy: So if we use those weapons, we can fight the Dragons effectively. But I wonder what a Divine Weapon is doing in Ostia?
Merlinus: Perhaps Lady Lilina knows that. Hmm, I do wish to know as well. Oh! Master Roy, our men have finished knocking down the gate. We can enter now!
Roy: All right! Charge! We will rescue Lilina, no matter what!

@Recruit-Talk 
%Roy,Zelots
Roy: Excuse me, sir, are you Sir Zelots of the Ilia Mercenary Knights?
Zelots: And you are?
Roy: My name is Roy. I'm the leader of the army that's fighting the rebels.
Zelots: You? Impressive... I was expecting somebody a little older.
Roy: I am here, respecting the will of Lord Hector.
Zelots: Lord Hector... We've lost a valuable person. He was a true warrior.
Roy: Yes, and I want to retake Ostia, for Lord Hector's sake! And Lilina's sake...
Zelots: All right. Then we'll help you as much as we can.
Roy: Thank you for your assistance.
Zelots: You can thank me after we've retaken the castle. Come, we must concentrate on the enemy right now.
Roy: Yes!

%Roy,Trec
Roy: You're one of the Ilian mercenaries, right?
Trec: Hmmm? Yeah, so what?
Roy: My name is Roy. I lead the Lycia Alliance Army...
Trec: Ah, then I'm going to be under your leadership from now.
Roy: What?? Is that okay?
Trec: Hm?
Roy: You don't have to check with your commander first?
Trec: Ah, don't worry about that. He said we were to join with the Lycia Alliance.
Roy: But did he really mean...
Trec: "Really mean" what? We're in the middle of a battle. If you take the time to check every little thing with your commander, you'll be dead. I'm not going against his orders, though.
Roy: .. All right.

%Roy,Noah
Roy: You're one of the Ilian mercenaries, right?
Noah: Yeah. And what do you want?
Roy: My name is Roy. I'm the leader of the Lycian Alliance Army.
Noah: Oh! I heard about you... From now on, is it all right if I join with you?
Roy: Are you sure that's all right?
Noah: What?
Roy: Don't you have to ask your commander if it's okay..?
Noah: He told us to join with the Lycia Alliance Army. That's enough for me.
Roy: But did he mean like this?
Noah: This is a battlefield. If you take your time to check everything with your commander, then you won't be able to act quickly in trouble. It's not good to disobey orders, but outside of that you can play it by ear.
Roy: I see... Thanks for telling me.

%Zelots,Trec
Zelots: Trec, we are going into the Lycia army's service.
Trec: Okay, sir.
Zelots: Hm, not the most enthusiastic response. You don't like the idea?
Trec: Eh? No, I have no problem with it.
Zelots: Oh, all right. Just thought I'd ask.
Trec: Lycia... Nah, we shouldn't have much trouble.

%Zelots,Noah
Zelots: Noah!
Noah: Sir Zelots, I'm sorry that I'm late.
Zelots: I heard you were coaching a young girl in the sword arts.
Noah: Yes... She was a little naive, so I couldn't help it.
Zelots: Is she not with you?
Noah: She said she was headed for the Western Isles.
Zelots: I see. Pity, I thought she might have been of some help if she were still here. But you, who ordinarily wouldn't start nosing around into other people's matters, a coach? Now that is unusual.
Noah: Do you think so, sir?
Zelots: Yes. Trec and I were joking around saying that you may have fancied the girl. But it is in the arena, so that probably wasn't the case.

%Trec,Zelots
Trec: General Zelots.
Zelots: Trec, what is it?
Trec: I just met with the Lycia Alliance leader.
Zelots: Ah, did you? Why didn't you tell me, then?
Trec: Oh, not like that. I just met with him now.
Zelots: That's fine. Then it's time for us to submit to his leadership. Trec, I leave the negotiations with the Lycian Alliance to you.
Trec: Yes sir!

%Noah,Zelots
Noah: General Zelots!
Zelots: Ah, it's Noah. You were at the arena, weren't you?
Noah: Yes, sorry I'm late.
Zelots: Doesn't really matter... We've just started fighting. I haven't talked to the Lycia Alliance army yet.
Noah: Oh? Don't worry, I just got done talking to their leader.
Zelots: Really! Then it's time for us to submit to his leadership. Noah, I leave the negotiations with the Lycia Alliance to you.
Noah: Yes sir!

@Boss 
Devias: You... you beat Bern's Dragon Knights!? Ergh... I'll not let you pass here!

Devias: General Leygance... Please be careful... These people are... strong...

%Bors,Devias
Devias: Bors! You returned!
Bors: Causing a rebellion during Lord Hector's absence?! That is unforgivable!

@Visit 
House: This...? This is the Torch staff! It creates light in the foggiest places! If you're in a fog, you can't attack or see anything! It helps to have this when it works against you. 

House: A while back, some unknown person was dying in the street. When I helped him, he gave me this sword. Really strange person, but nice... Hm? Here's the sword. You can have it! Just take good care of it. 

House: Hey you, look at this great thing I made. It fires arrows MUCH further than a normal bow! It's very useful, right? Right. Just like I thought. I'll give it to you guys, I want it with someone that knows how to use it. 

House: Are you going to help Lady Lilina? Here's something that can cure injuries from a distance! If Lady Lilina's hurt, please help her... 

House: Be careful. General Leygance is allied with Bern now! He went and slaughtered all those who resisted him... But I saved my own hide. Please take this, it's proof for heroes. Give this to them, and keep fighting to protect Ostia...

House: This town used to belong to Lycia! But now, look at it... You guys are out to restore Ostia's former glory, right? Then, take this gem... If you sell it, it will catch a high price! Please, help Ostia! 

House: Social Knights, Paladins, Nomads... All those guys riding on horses... This spear, the Knight Killer, is effective against them. There's a lot of horsemen in the rebel army, so use this against them! 

House: Medicine! Medicine! This cures anything! No matter what kind of wounds you have, this will restore you completely! The contents are a secret, though... Can't tell you, or I'll get in trouble. Hmm? You don't want the medicine? Aww, I'll give you some for free, if you buy it next time! @Opening 
Just to the north of Pherae territory stands Castle Araphen. The Lycia Alliance had gathered here to discuss the matters of going up against Bern. However, Roy and Guinevere were only half a day away from Castle Araphen, when a messenger brought them news that they could not believe. The message was this: "Bern has a trio of elite generals called the Three Dragon Lords. Two of these three, General Brunnya and General Narcian, have attacked Castle Araphen and nearly decimated the Lycia Alliance Army."

Although the morale of the Pherae Army went down severely, Roy led his group towards Castle Araphen to find survivors and check the damage.

@Intro 
Brunnya: Your Majesty, we have captured the enemy leader.
Zephiel: Good. Bring him before me.

Hector: You... Zephiel, the King of Bern!!! Damn you...!
Zephiel: Ah, Lord Hector. I must praise your ability of putting up such a good fight against two of our Dragon Lords. I suppose they do not call you the leader of the Lycia Alliance for nothing. However, you were not good enough. Pray while you can, for you end here.
Hector: Why...?
Zephiel: Hm?
Hector: Bern and Lycia... We were always on good terms with each other. Even when you took the throne, we have always paid our respects towards Bern...
Zephiel: Respect? Don't be ridiculous. Lycia... no, this entire continent must go under my rule. That is the only way to liberate this world. I lack the time to be worrying about such trivial matters as respect.
Hector: To liberate... this world? What do you mean...?
Zephiel: It is of no importance to you. You are going to die anyway. Someone! Take him away! Throw Lord Hector into the dungeon!
Soldier: Yes, sir!

Brunnya: Your Majesty, I will now return to the Sacae Plains.
Zephiel: Yes, you may be on your way.
Brunnya: ... One thing before I leave, your Majesty. I beg your pardon, but I do not think that it is such a good idea to put too much trust into sinister people...
Zephiel: Do you mean Idunn?
Brunnya: Yes. Our soldiers call her the 'Dark Priestess' and do not approve of her presence. I understand she is a shaman of great powers, however...
Zephiel: Brunnya, do you not have faith in me?
Brunnya: ...! Yes, of course I do, your Majesty! I just thought that...
Zephiel: Then all you do is follow my orders. Understood?
Brunnya: ... Yes. I will do whatever his Majesty wishes.

Zephiel: 'Do you not have faith in me?' Dear, dear, the things I say sometimes...

Roy: So Lord Hector is still alive?!
Chad: Yeah, that's for sure. I saw some of Bern's soldiers take him into the castle.
Roy: Chad, was it? Do you know the inside of Castle Araphen well?
Chad: I guess... Wait, are you guys planning on going in to save Lord Hector? I wouldn't try that if I were you. The bulk of Bern's forces are gone, but there are still a decent number of soldiers in the castle, you know? It would be suicide to try and charge them with your army.
Roy: Perhaps. But we can't afford to lose Lord Hector. And you said that their main forces are gone, right? Then there is a chance we could win.
Chad: I see... Then I guess I'll go along too. I can show you around the castle.
Roy: What?! No, no, don't feel pressured! If you could just explain what the interior of the castle looks like...
Chad: I also want revenge against Bern. C'mon, let me go with you!
Roy: All right. Then I'll be counting on you.
Chad: Of course! Leave locked chests and doors to me!
Guinevere: ... Master Roy... I beg your forgiveness of my brother's doings... I didn't think he would invade Lycia so soon...
Roy: My Lady, there's no point in dwelling over the past. Please do not blame yourself. Besides, Lycia is still intact. If we could get our leader, Lord Hector, out of harm's way, we can unite Lycia once again and fight! We must recapture Castle Araphen for all of our sakes... and for Lilina's sake...
Guinevere: ......
Roy: Let's go!

@Battle 
Lugh: Thanks for taking care of the children, Reverend.
Priest: Of course. We of the Elimine Church will take good care of the orphans. And what will you do, Lugh?
Lugh: I'm going to stay here. I still have some things to do.
Priest: I see... Please do not stress yourself.
Lugh: Yes, thank you.

Lugh: Make sure you listen to what the priest says, okay?
Boy: Aren't you coming with us, Lugh?
Lugh: I'm going to wait for Chad, and then we'll catch up with you...
Girl: Yay! Chad's coming too?
Lugh: That's right.
Boy: Then I want Raigh to come too!
Lugh: Yeah... It would be great if Raigh came back and we could all go together, wouldn't it?
Priest: Children, we must be off.
Boy: See you later, Lugh.
Girl: Hurry and catch up, okay?
Lugh: Sure...

Lugh: Sorry... But I've chosen not to run anymore.

Zephiel: Narcian! What is causing all that noise?
Narcian: Probably what's left of the enemy are trying to put up a fight in their last hope.
Idunn: Your Highness, should we use the Dragons?
Narcian: No, I do not wish to put the Dark Priestess through any trouble. Do not worry, we can handle them by ourselves...
Idunn: ......
Zephiel: Not this time, Idunn. Send the Dragons back to Bern, as we planned.
Idunn: Yes, if his Highness wishes it to be so.
Narcian: ......
Zephiel: I will be off to Bern soon as well. Narcian, I'm going to leave Lycia up to you.
Narcian: ... What shall I do with the remaining forces of the Lycia Army?
Zephiel: Kill all those that stand against us.
Narcian: ... Does that include women and children?
Zephiel: Of course. Annihilate them enough so that they would no longer even think about going against us.
Narcian: Leave that to me, sire. Hehehe...

Narcian: Hmph, I wonder what his Majesty sees in that Idunn girl. Well, I think I'll be going as well. Slater, I'm trusting this castle with you.
Slater: Are you leaving?
Narcian: Yes. One of the marquesses who turned against Lycia has a special gift for me. He says it's a girl from Etrurian nobility or something... Hehehe...
Slater: From Etruria? She must be very beautiful, then!
Narcian: Yes, the marquess tells me she's still young but very beautiful.
Slater: I would be looking forward to it if I were you, sir. Please be careful on your way there.
Narcian: You be careful too, Slater. Don't you dare get defeated by these remainders of Lycia's army. If you do, I will personally tear you apart.
Slater: ... Have mercy, sir...!
Narcian: Hahahaha...!

@Recruit-Visit 
Lugh: Excuse me! You're from the Lycian Army, right? Please let me fight with you! I don't have any useful information, but I can use a bit of magic! Please let me help you! 

Lugh: Chad! You're okay!
Chad: Lugh!? What are you doing here?
Lugh: We all fled to here.
Chad: Oh... Where's everybody else? Are they all right?
Lugh: Yeah. The Elimine Church is going to take care of them for a while.
Chad: What about you?
Lugh: What?
Chad: How come you're still here?
Lugh: ... The same reason as you.
Chad: !? Lugh, you're not thinking of...!
Lugh: I can use some magic! You know, when I borrowed the Fire spell from Father's room?
Chad: Lugh, don't force yourself. You can't hurt people, can you?
Lugh: But...
Chad: I'm going to avenge Father. Lugh, you should stay with the others.
Lugh: I'm not going to hide anymore! Everyone, everyone just disappears when I'm not looking! Father, you, even Lleu... I want to fight to protect the people that I care for. I want to protect and not be just protected!
Chad: Lugh... All right then, let's crush Bern as soon as possible and go meet everyone else!
Lugh: Yeah!

@Visit 
Village: You're the remnants of the Lycian Army, right? Here, take this and go quickly. There are a bunch of Bern soldiers here. Bern may govern this whole area, but we're friends of Lycia!

@Boss
Slater: I-I won't lose! If I don't win... ... Oh... No...!!!

Slater: Sir Narcian... Please... have mercy...!!

@End 
Merlinus: Master Roy! We have found Lord Hector in the dungeon level!
Roy: Really!? Is he all right?
Merlinus: He's severely wounded...

Hector: Roy...
Roy: Lord Hector! What an awful wound...! We must treat it! Here, lean on my shoulder..
Hector: It's all right... I won't last much longer...
Roy: Lord Hector...
Hector: I was taken by surprise... I never would have guessed that Bern had resurrected the Dragons...!
Roy: Dragons!?
Hector: Yes... The Dragons that we humans fought in the past...
Roy: The Scouring? I have heard of it. A long time ago, two races that each had half of Elibe, the humans and the Dragons, fought over total control of the continent...
Hector: Right... the "Eight Heroes"... defeated the Dragons and led us humans... to... victory...
Roy: How did Bern use the Dragons...?
Hector: I... have no idea... But... the Dragons had control of what is now Bern in the past... and Hartmut, one of the Eight Heroes... is the founder of Bern... Perhaps... the reason... lies there...
Roy: Lord Hector!
Hector: Roy... Go to Ostia...! ... You must... lead what is left of the Lycia Alliance Army... instead of me...
Roy: Me...? But...
Hector: Don't worry... in Ostia... are weapons that... are effective against Dragons...
Roy: Weapons?
Hector: I have already told this to Lilina... Please take care of her too... She... may seem strong... But she is still a child... Please... give... her support...
Roy: ... Yes, I will.
Hector: ... Lilina... Just... one... more...... time...!!!
Roy: Lord Hector!@Opening 
After Roy captured Aquleia, other Etrurian powers slowly began to change their
views and express their anti Coup d'etat opinions.  Driven away from their
palace, Roartz and Arcard fled to Sacae, which was still under Bern's control.

Sacae is the vast plain-covered land in the center of the continent.  Before
Bern invaded, the various tribes there led nomadic lives.

The Etrurian army joined the Lycia Alliance Army to form a joint Etruria-Lycia
Union Army.  The decision was to head for Sacae to get rid of the remaining
Coup d'etat forces and also attack Bern, who was behind them.

Thinking that some Etrurian knight groups would not approve of being seen as
under the Lycia Alliance Army, Roy officially named the new Union the "Etrurian
Army" and became its commander.

Roy led the division responsible for entering Sacae.  The Sacae people are wary
of outsiders in the first place, but even worse, Brunnya, another of the Three
Dragon Lords, had gotten the largest tribe in Sacae, the Djute clan, under
submission.  The warriors of the Djute tribe and Brunnya's elite Bern troops
stood in front of Roy as he set foot on Sacae's soil.

@Intro 
Brunnya: So... Narshen fell at Aquleia.
Soldier: Yes, General Brunnya. It has been confirmed.
Brunnya: I see...
Roartz: L-Lady Brunnya... What will become of us?
Brunnya: Please do not worry, Lord Roartz. You have assisted us, so we will not abandon you. I shall assure that.
Arcard: Thank you...
Brunnya: Then, Lord Arcard, you will be assigned the defense of this land, Talas. Lord Roartz, your post will be the city of Bulgar.
Arcard: Talas!? W-Wait! This is too close to Aquleia. The enemy will be here in no time!
Brunnya: Then all must do is defeat them. This is an ideal post to set up a defense. Since it is so close to Aquleia, the enemy will be sure to attack. We can be most prepared here.
Arcard: Well, that’s true...
Roartz: Bulgar...that is deep in the foreign lands of Sacae. I hear that there is much rebellion among the nomads...
Brunnya: Then force them into submission. Is that not your specialty?
Roartz: Well...
Brunnya: Rumors say that the enemy commander, Roy, is still a boy. Still, he has prevailed through many scandals and conspiracies to rebuild the Lycia Alliance Army and strengthen it further than ever. Compared to his hardships, yours are close to nothing. Am I wrong?
Arcard: ......
Brunnya: Then I must be off. I will be praying for your success.
Roartz: ......
 
Soldier: ...Are you sure, my lady?
Brunnya: Those two are disgraceful cowards who cast away their homeland to save their own skins. We must not assist them any more than necessary. They should be thankful that they are getting the land and troops that they are.
Soldier: ......
 
Yoder: We are soon approaching the Etrurian border.
Roy: Bishop Yoder, thank you for everything. Thanks to the Church, we were able to proceed thus far with ease.
Yoder: Please. If you had not captured Aquleia, we would be suffering from persecution under Bern. This is nothing in comparison to what you did for us.
Roy: I am glad that I could be of use to you.
Yoder: Now... May I ask you a very important favor?
Roy: Yes, anything that I am capable of.
Yoder: If you find out anything else about the Dragons...
Roy: I understand. If I discover anything new, I will report to you immediately.
Yoder: Thank you! ...Ah, yes, I must tell you something else. The lands around here... They are surrounded by high mountains and valleys. And now that night has fallen...
Roy: The perfect setting for an ambush...
Yoder: Exactly. Castle Talas up ahead is under Bern’s control.
Roy: All right. I will be careful.
Yoder: Yes, please. Then, may Saint Elimine bless the Etrurian Army!

@Boss 
Arcard: W-Why! Why is this happening to me!?

Arcard: I...am an Etrurian...noble! I must not...die...here... Guh!

%Klein,Arcard
Arcard: Klein! You would betray me?
Klein: You are the one who betrayed Etruria, Lord Arcard!

%Douglas,Arcard
Arcard: D-Douglas! You had turned to the enemy...!?

@End 
Merlinus: Lord Arcard... What a pathetic ending for one who became so powerful.
Roy: Well, last year, I didn’t think we would be fighting in Sacae, either. Fate can turn out in the most unlikely ways... And that might be true for Bern as well.
Merlinus: ...? Master Roy, what is it that you are holding in your hand?
Roy: Oh, this? This is the Fire Emblem.
Merlinus: Oh... So this tiny gem is...
Roy: Princess Guinevere wanted me to keep it. It seemed...difficult for her to give it to me... She must have been truly hoping to end the war peacefully until now...where this is no hope left...
Merlinus: Hmm... Trust between siblings? It didn’t seem likely on the outside.
Roy: Why not?
Merlinus: The enemy is Zephiel, king of Bern! It is said that he murdered his own father, so I didn’t think that he would be moved by mere family relations...
Roy: What!? He killed his own father?
Merlinus: Didn’t you know, Master Roy? Zephiel took the throne because the former king had died. But because the former king’s death was so sudden, there are many rumors going around.
Roy: And one of them is...
Merlinus: ...That King Zephiel assassinated him.
Roy: ...Does Princess Guinevere know about this?
Merlinus: She must know something about it, if not all.@Opening
At the request of King Mordred, Roy headed for the Tower of the Saint on the
outskirts of Aquleia.

The Tower of the Saint was a place of worship for Saint Elimine, one of the
Eight Heroes, and in the tower lay various holy objects relating to her.

However, this sacred tower was now under the control of Bishop Windham, who had
rebelled against the Elimine Church by Roartz's orders.

@Intro 
Windham: Lord Roartz fled!? Then what will happen to me, who turned against the Church?
Soldier: Sir, Lord Roartz’s message is that he ‘doesn’t want to waste time dealing with useless bishops who cannot even tame the Elimine Church.'
Windham: This is all because that damned Yoder got in my way...
Soldier: Well, yes... But even if you tell me about it...
Windham: ...All right, fine... This is our last mission. If we are to die, then the Lycia Alliance Army will be going down with us! Prepare the Heavenly Arrows!
Soldier: B-But Bishop Windham! If we use those, they may hit our allies as well!
Windham: Quiet! I do the ordering around here! ...I shall show them...hahaha...!
 
Douglas: This is the Tower of the Saint. Saint Elimine’s weapon, the Aerial spell book, lies here.
Roy: Lord Douglas, thank you for helping us when we were your enemies just a while earlier.
Douglas: You do not have to thank me. The king ordered me to help you. Do not worry about it.
Roy: ......
Douglas: Besides, you are the saviors of Etruria. It is an honor to be able to fight along your side.
Roy: Lord Douglas...

@Boss 
Windham: Die! All of you! Everything shall be destroyed!

Windham: Hahaha! Haha…ha…

@End 
Soldier: Master Roy, I think we have found the spell book.
Roy: Lord Douglas, is this...?
Douglas: Yes, this is it. This is the Pinnacle of Light, the Aerial spell book, Saint Elimine’s weapon.
Roy: May we use it?
Douglas: The king told you to use anything in the tower that you might find useful. And the Elimine Church is on our side as well. If we still have trouble, then I can negotiate with them.
Roy: All right. Thank you, Lord Douglas.
 
Roy: Princess Guinevere, I must speak with you.
Guinevere: ...Is it that we must attack Bern as well after Etruria?
Roy: ! Did someone inform you?
Guinevere: No. ...But I knew that it would happen eventually.
Roy: ...We cannot leave Bern running around freely any longer. I know that it will be hard to see your nation invaded, but...
Guinevere: ...Roy, I will give this to you.
Roy: What is this?
Guinevere: It is Bern’s greatest treasure...the Fire Emblem.
Roy: What!?
Guinevere: In the south of Bern lies a temple called the Temple of Seals. In it lies the sword that our founder, Hartmut, used.
Roy: Is it...one of the Divine Weapons?
Guinevere: I believe so. It was a sword made to slay the Dark Dragon, the leader of the Dragons during the Scouring. However, it held power so immense that it was sealed away after the war. The Fire Emblem is the key to break its seal.
Roy: The key...
Guinevere: My brother...is trying to force the world into submission through power. That is not forgivable, no matter what the reason.
Roy: ......
Guinevere: To stop him, all we can do is defeat the Dragon at his side.
Roy: Princess Guinevere...
Guinevere: ...My name shall be stained in history, as the woman who betrayed her nation.
Roy: No...
Guinevere: I shall be hated all my life as a traitor. Roy, promise me one thing. When we invade Bern, promise me that you will not harm the civilians...
Roy: I promise. Please trust me.
Guinevere: ...Thank you.
@Opening 
Roy vowed to protect Lilina forever. However, with Bern coming full force at them, Roy's army wouldn't stand a chance. Therefore, they decided to try and take the Divine Weapons before Bern got their hands on them.

Lilina showed them to a cave in the outskirts of Ostia, where the first Divine Weapon was hidden. The cave, located at the foot of a volcano, was going to be a major ordeal for Roy.

@Intro 
Bandit: B-Boss! An army's invading our cave!
Henning: What! How many of them are there?
Bandit: Dunno, Boss. I hope there aren't too many of them...
Henning: That's strange... The Lycia marquesses should be having bigger problems than dealing with bandits like us.
Bandit: Well? What do we do?
Henning: They probably don't know much about this cave, anyway. Just lure them into stepping on the floor tiles where hot lava spurts and get rid of 'em.

Lilina: Roy, over here! The Divine Weapon is located on the other side of this lava pit.
Roy: Lilina, are you all right? Have you calmed down?
Lilina: Well... maybe I'm not fully all right, but now isn't the time to be sad. I need to protect Ostia, like my father before me.
Roy: All right... Good for you, Lilina.
Lilina: I'm okay because you're with me, Roy...
Roy: What? Did you just say something?
Lilina: No, nothing. Anyway, I'll tell you what I know about this Divine Weapon. The one here is the sword that was used by Roland, one of the 'Eight Heroes.'
Roy: That Roland... is that King Roland, the first king of Ostia?
Lilina: Right, he's our ancestor. This sword is called 'The Blazing Sword,' or the Durandal.
Roy: The Durandal... the name has a strange echo to it. So Roland used the Durandal to fight the Dragons during the Scouring.
Lilina: That's how the legend goes. They also say that after the war ended, Roland returned to his hometown of Ostia. He raised the Durandal high above his head, and the land that had become barren after the war suddenly became lush with vegetation and life again.
Roy: Wow... that must be some sword.
Lilina: Well, it's a weapon that can defeat Dragons. It must have some special powers in it.
Roy: Yes... Oh yeah, I heard that a group of bandits has made its base here. Is it going to be all right?
Lilina: ? Is what going to be all right?
Roy: I mean, there's always the chance that they might have taken the Durandal.
Lilina: No, don't worry. Only those who are Roland's successors know how to remove the Durandal from its sheath.
Roy: Oh, okay. Then everything is fine. All we have to do is to get rid of the bandits and obtain the Durandal.

@Boss 
Henning: Sigh. What are you guys doing in a place like this? Oh well, but since you're already here... I can't let you guys go, can I?

Henning: Crap... I knew this would happen...

@End 
Lilina: Roy! Here it is!
Roy: So this is the Durandal... It's a very large sword. I don't think many of us are going to be able to swing it.
Lilina: But history has it that Roland was a small man. I think it's the person's skill that determines whether he can use it or not.
Roy: Then if I become better with my sword, I can use it as well?
Lilina: Well... maybe.
Roy: Maybe? Come on... at least say 'probably.'
Lilina: Hee hee!
Merlinus: Master Roy! Bern's Dragon Knights have appeared at Castle Ostia!
Roy: What! They're here already?

Narcian: Hehehe... Are you Roy? I must thank you for getting rid of that idiot Leygance for me. Now, you will leave Ostia to me.
Roy: Don't be ridiculous! Who would give Ostia to the likes of you..!
Narcian: Oh? Then do you wish to fight us with that sad little group of yours? I shall annihilate you, as I did with Hector!
Roy: Damn!
???: That's enough!
Soldier: General Narcian! A legion has arrived from Etruria!
Narcian: I can see that, you fool! Why...
Percival: I am Percival, Knight General of Etruria. Yesterday, Mage General Cecilia informed me that Ostia had requested Etruria's protection.
Narcian: What...!
Cecilia: You seem discontent. We are prepared for battle. But can those Dragon Knights of yours stand a chance against all of us?
Narcian: You...!
Cecilia: I am Cecilia, Mage General of Etruria! Ostia is now under our protection.
Narcian: Argh... You... you...!!!
Soldier: General Narcian, please control your temper! General Percival is one of the strongest warriors in Etruria! And with General Cecilia here as well we'll be slaughtered!
Narcian: I know! We're leaving! Cecilia, is it? Watch your back from now on!

Percival: Are you General Roy of the Lycia Alliance Army?
Roy: Y-Yes! I am in charge of the Alliance Army in the place of Lord Hector.
Percival: I see. Lycia is in a time of hardship. Our king also sends his words of regret for Lord Hector's death.
Roy: Thank you for your consideration. If Etruria hadn't helped us... Ostia would be under Bern's control now. Thank you very much.
Percival: I'm not the one to thank. I simply followed my king's orders. You should thank Cecilia, who went against the king to help you.
Roy: She... disobeyed the king's orders?
Percival: Yes, now isn't that something? Well, I must be off. Two of the three Etrurian Generals shouldn't be leaving the country for so long. Cecilia, can you take care of the rest?
Cecilia: Yes. Thank you, Percival. You can leave the rest to me.
Roy: Whew... General Percival... Now he's someone.
Cecilia: Nervous, were you?
Roy: General Cecilia! It is good to see you again.
Cecilia: How are you doing, Roy? You look a little tired, but you seem okay.
Roy: Yes, thanks to Etruria, we were able to avoid disaster.
Cecilia: I'm glad we made it here in time.
Roy: I'm sorry. I put you through a lot of trouble.
Cecilia: No. It's going to be beneficial for Etruria for Ostia to go under our protection.
Roy: Beneficial?
Cecilia: Yes. Bern's been acting aggressively these days, as you know. We also want to do something about it, but since we haven't been directly invaded, we have no reason to go to war with them. But if Bern gets any stronger, the balance of powers would be shattered.
Roy: So when Ostia requested protection, you saw it as a good reason to declare war on Bern?
Cecilia: Right. We just did what would be best for us. You don't need to feel that you're in our debt.
Roy: Yes.
Cecilia: So you shouldn't thank us.
Roy: Understood. I won't. Well anyway, come in and meet the rest of our army.
Cecilia: ... He's gotten so bold in the short time that I haven't seen him. Well, he is a boy, after all.@Opening
In the hidden village Arcadia stands an ancient temple.  One of the Divine
Weapons is said to be hidden in it.

Roy and company were quick to follow Bern's troops, who had already found their
way into the temple...

@Intro 
Ohtz: Haven’t you found the Divine Weapon yet!?
Soldier: We think it is inside this altar, but it won’t open...
Ohtz: Break it open, then! We don’t have much time.
Soldier: But we must also deal with the enemies that have entered the temple! We don’t have enough manpower to use force on the altar.
Ohtz: Very well, defeat the enemy first! Then we shall examine the altar with leisure.
 
Roy: This is the underground of the desert? There’s so much...water.
Sophia: This is close...to a large source of groundwater... That is why...plants and animals can live near here...
Roy: I see, so that’s why you were able to build a village here. Still, how did you find such a convenient place like this?
Sophia: Athos... Archsage Athos is the one...who led us here...
Roy: What? Do you mean Athos of the Eight Heroes?
Sophia: Yes... After the Scouring...Athos traveled around Elibe... At the end of his journey, he arrived at our village...in which men and Dragons were living in harmony... But he said that...it would only be a matter of time before we were found...
Roy: So he led you here...
Sophia: Yes... And he hid his Divine Weapon...inside this temple...
Roy: Can we use his Divine Weapon?
Sophia: Yes... Athos told us...to use his weapon to protect Arcadia... And your fight against Bern...will lead to our safety...
Roy: All right. Thanks.
Sophia: Some of the temple’s passages...may suddenly sink into the water... Please be careful...

@Boss 
Ohtz: I…wasn’t expecting you to fight so well against all of us.

Ohtz: Where…did you learn to fight…like this…

@End 
Sophia: The Divine Weapon is here...inside this altar...
Roy: ... It won’t open.
Sophia: This altar is made...so that only those of the village may open it... Please allow me...
Roy: Okay.
Sophia: ...... Here... This is the Divine Weapon...
Roy: Athos’ Divine Weapon? Then...
Sophia: Yes... The Infernal Element...Foreblaze...
 
Elder of Arcadia: Who are you? How did you enter here?
Roy: My name is Roy. I came with Sophia to protect this village.
Elder: With Sophia...? Then it was you who drove off Bern’s soldiers? Oh... Please forgive my impudence. I am the Elder of Arcadia.
Roy: Elder... Then are you the Dragon?
Elder: Dragon... They once called me that. But that is a story of a time long since past.
Roy: ......
Elder: Let me see... The only real Dragon we have is Fa right here.
Fa: Hi...
Roy: This little girl is a Dragon?
Elder: Yes, although she is far from her mature form.
Roy: Elder, do you know anything about the Dragons in Bern?
Elder: What! There are Dragons in Bern?
Roy: Yes, we have seen them.
Elder: Why...? Dragons do not exist anywhere except here.
Igrene: Elder, if I may.
Elder: What is it, Igrene?
Igrene: Sophia said that she could detect evil energy coming from Bern’s troops. That may have something to do with the Dragons Master Roy says he saw in Bern’s army.
Elder: Perhaps... But I am too old to detect such energy now.
Roy: Energy? What is that?
Elder: Sophia is half Dragon, half human. That gives her the ability to detect the pulses emitted from other Dragons. But because she can’t detect them clearly, she only said that she felt a force...twisted and unnatural.
Igrene: I think that we should look into it. Elder, if you would allow it, I would like to join Master Roy and look at Bern’s Dragons myself.
Elder: I really do not want to deal with matters of the outside... But this is a time of emergency. Well then, Roy, will you take her?
Roy: Certainly.
Igrene: I am Igrene, the Guardian of Nabata. I have confidence in my skills with the bow. I believe I may be of some help in battle.
Roy: Thank you.
Fa: Fa’s going, too!
Elder: What are you saying? Of course you may not. There is no telling what could happen if your existence were exposed to the world!
Fa: ......
Roy: Well then, let’s go.
Igrene: Yes.
Fa: ...Fine... Fa will just follow them anyway!
@Opening 
Roy ventured deep inside the Temple of Seals. Apparently, there was something else hidden there other than the Binding Blade.

However, Pereth, one of Murdock’s best lieutenants, was already inside the temple and waiting to ambush Roy.

@Intro 
Pereth: So the battle above the ground was lost...
Soldier: Yes.
Pereth: I would have liked to be at Lord Murdock’s side when he fell.
Soldier: ...We share your feelings.
Pereth: However, we have an important mission from Lord Murdock. We must defend this Divine Weapon. The Silencing Darkness, Apocalypse, must not fall into the enemy’s hands!
 
Roy: There’s a Divine Weapon under here?
Melady: Yes, I believe so. I have only heard rumors within the army, but apparently there is a spell book here that was placed to protect the Temple of Seals from intruders.
Elffin: This place is guarded by Bern’s troops as well. It is highly probable that the spell book that she speaks of is a Divine Weapon.
Roy: Yes. We’re going up against Zephiel soon. ...I want to have as many weapons as possible ready before we enter the castle. We have to get that book.
Melady: I have also heard rumors that there are traps all over the underground level.
Roy: Traps?
Melady: Yes. Apparently, they are crafted so well that we have no chance of finding them before they go off. Perhaps Thieves would be better at spotting the traps... Anyway, please be careful.
Roy: All right. Let’s be wary.
Roy: Princess Guinevere, is this where the Divine Weapon is?
Guinevere: Probably... I have only heard rumors that there is a spell book here that was placed to protect the Temple of Seals from intruders.
Elffin: This place is guarded by Bern’s troops as well. It is highly probable that the spell book that she speaks of is a Divine Weapon.
Roy: Yes. We’re going up against Zephiel soon. ...I want to have as many weapons as possible ready before we enter the castle. We have to get that book.
Guinevere: I also understand that there are numerous traps placed in the underground level.
Roy: Traps?
Guinevere: Yes. They are designed so well that it would be impossible for us to find them. Perhaps Thieves would be better at finding them... Please be careful.
Roy: Yes, Princess. We will be careful.

@Boss 
Pereth: Darkness from an age long forgotten… I will show you its power.

Pereth: Dark… It is getting so…dark…

@End 
Roy: Elffin, do you know what this spell book is?
Elffin: ...It is probably the Apocalypse spell book.
Roy: Apocalypse?
Elffin: Yes, it is also known as the Silencing Darkness. Brammimond... the most mysterious of the Eight Heroes...used it.
Roy: Brammimond... I only know his name.
Elffin: We don’t even know if Brammimond was male or female, old or young. None of the ancient scrolls say anything specific about Brammimond.
Roy: I see...
Elffin: ......
Guinevere: Roy, is something wrong?
Roy: No, I was just thinking.
Guinevere: About what?
Roy: I was wondering why there’s always some kind of trap where a Divine Weapon lies.
Guinevere: ...Perhaps it is to warn people that their power is too great to be dealt with lightly.
Roy: But still... The traps are so carefully set. There must be other reasons.
Guinevere: ......
Elffin: ...I wondered about the same thing. Perhaps I shall look into it.
Roy: Yes... Please.@Opening 
Roy couldn't believe Larum's story.  He quickly penned off a letter to Cecilia
letting her know of the horrors happening on the Western Isles.  He also let
her know of the actions that he planned to take from now.

After sending the letter, Roy and company moved towards the mine in Mt Ebrakhm
to try and rescue the people suffering from forced labor.

Etruria had assigned Bishop Oro of the Elimine Church to supervise the mine.
Already a large amount of minerals had been taken, but it seemed that they
ever wanted more and more...

Ebrakhm...known now as the Mine of Death.  The wails of the people forced into
labor there echoed through the mines, like the howling of ghosts...

@Intro 
Melady: I see... So Princess Guinivere is nowhere on the Western Isles?
Oro: We searched all over these islands, and we sent spies in to Lycian League, but we could not find the princess anywhere, I'm sorry.
Melady: I understand. I suppose I will search elsewhere. Bishop Oro, I thank you for your cooperation with Bern.
Oro: I will pray that you will be able to meet Princess Guinivere soon.
Melady: Thank you.

Etruria Soldier: Bishop Oro, who was that?
Oro: A Dragon Knight from Bern. Her name is Melady. She was looking for Princess Guinivere, who is her mistress.
Etruria Soldier: Did you tell her where the princess is?
Oro: Of course not. Princess Guinivere is a valuable hostage. When Advisor Roartz heard the news that Cecilia was hiding with Guinivere in Aquleia, he was as excited as the time when he reported the assassination of Prince Myrddin had been successful.
Etruria Soldier: Bishop Oro! You mustn't say he was assassinated...
Oro: Oh, I must watch my tongue. Anyway, Guinivere has much value.
Etruria Soldier: I see...
Oro: And now, why did you come before me? Did you not have something to say?
Etruria Soldier: Yes, my lord. It is about the village where the resistance leader is hiding. We are now prepared to launch an attack on the village, so I came to report.
Oro: All right, well done. Then start your attack immediately, before we have any unwanted interruptions...

Roy: So the resistance hideout is in one of these villages here?
Larum: Yes. But it's possible the landlord's troops have attacked it already.
Merlinus: I must say, that Oro is a despicable man. A bishop should be preaching the words of God to help the people. But in fact he is torturing his people! That is far from forgivable.
Roy: We should probably wait for General Cecilia's reply, but...
Lycia Solider: Master Roy! Troops from the castle are attacking the villages!
Merlinus: What! Master Roy, should we attack?
Roy: I guess we can't wait for her reply then... But I want to help the people here. Even if it means that we'll be on bad terms with Etruria.
Larum: Roy..
Roy: Let's fight!! So we can be proud of our actions when we return to Lycia!

@Battle 
Galle: Melady, did you find out anything about Princess Guinevere?
Melady: No... It looks like she left the Lycia Alliance Army. Just when I thought I had found her...
Galle: Well, then it’s no use looking here, I suppose.
Melady: Galle...I’m sorry. My squad was the only one assigned to look for the princess because King Zephiel wanted to keep it in secrecy. I’m sorry that I got you into this mess...
Galle: You have enough to worry about already... Don’t fret over things like that.
Melady: But you’re one of the captains working directly under General Murdock...
Galle: Don’t worry about that, General Murdock has agreed to my helping you. Anyway, Princess Guinevere must still be on the mainland. I guess we can ask General Narshen for help.
Melady: ...You’re going to bow down to Narshen?
Galle: ? Of course. He’s one of the Three Dragon Lords, and he’s leading the divisions in Lycia and Etruria.
Melady: Galle, aren’t you...mad?
Galle: About what?
Melady: I mean... You’re the one who should be a Dragon Lord. ...But Narshen accused you of not being a native of Bern, and he snatched the position away. And you’re going to bow down to him and ask him for help?
Galle: Well, what he said was true. I wasn’t born in Bern.
Melady: But...
Galle: Melady, don’t worry. I’m happy with the position I have now. King Zephiel and General Murdock put trust in me, even though I’m not a native of Bern. What more could I ask?
Melady: Galle...

Oro: Hahaha... I’ve got an idea... Someone!
Soldier: Yes, Bishop Oro?
Oro: Tell the bandits that the villagers in chaos. I want them to ransack the villages and collect the valuables.
Soldier: Yes. But... Are you sure? If this becomes public...
Oro: You forget that I speak for God Himself. If anyone tries to accuse me, he would be accusing God. There is no one on this island who can prosecute me! Now hurry. It will be a chance wasted if the crisis in the villages settles down.
Soldier: Yes.

Klein: So that’s the Lycia Alliance Army...
Thea: They’re supposed to be fighting against the bandits...
Klein: I know. But Lord Arcard says that they are working with the bandits to attack innocent villagers. Why are they doing the opposite of what they were told...?
Thea: ......
Klein: Thea, can you take your troops and attack from the north? I’ll start attacking from here.
Thea: Yes, General Klein.
Klein: Thea! Wait.
Thea: Yes?
Klein: I heard that you have some siblings.
Thea: Yes. I have two sisters, one older, one younger.
Klein: Are they both Pegasus Knights like you?
Thea: Yes. Why do you ask?
Klein: Well, you see, I have a younger sister myself...
Thea: You have a sister? She must be very beautiful.
Klein: Thank you. Yes, she is pretty. But I heard that she got tangled up in some, mess and I don’t know where she is now...
Thea: What? Oh my...
Klein: I’ve sent out some people to look for her, but they haven’t had any luck. If I weren’t on this mission, I would go search for her myself...
Thea: ......
Klein: Thea, take care of yourself. For your family’s sake.
Thea: Yes, thank you.

Klein: All right, let’s go.
Soldier: Sir, are you sure?
Klein: About what?
Soldier: Lord Arcard said to leave the fighting to Ilia’s Pegasus Knights so that we Etrurians suffer the least casualties.
Klein: Don’t be ridiculous, they are our companions and trustworthy comrades. We will fight full-force to support them. Understood?
Soldier: Yes, General Klein.
Klein: ...Still, Lord Arcard’s story is strange... The Alliance Army just got here. Would they get tied in with the bandits so quickly...?

Bandit: So you’re sure we can raid the villages as much as we want?
Soldier: Yes. But in return...
Bandit: Yeah, yeah, we’re supposed to take half of the loot to the castle, right? That’s one hell of a bishop you guys got yourselves over there.
Soldier: Thank you for your cooperation.
Bandit: All right, boys! Loot the villages! Grab all the treasure!

Soldier: Master Roy, bandits are appearing from the mountains in the east.
Roy: They’re thinking of attacking the villages during the confusion... We have to stop them!
Thea: Are you ready? We’re moving southward!
Soldier: Captain... Are you sure we’ll be all right?
Thea: Why?
Soldier: Perhaps the Etrurian army means to use us up front as pawns...
Thea: Who says that?
Soldier: One of our group heard rumors like that in the Etrurian army.
Thea: If you take rumors seriously all the time, you won’t be able to do anything in battle.
Soldier: But...
Thea: Besides, even if that were true, General Klein wouldn’t approve of it.
Soldier: Do you think so?
Thea: General Klein’s not like that. I trust him.
Soldier: ...All right. Then we’ll trust him as well, for we trust you, Captain.
Thea: Thanks. All right, let’s go!

Soldier: Echidna! We have surrounded this entire area! We know you’re hiding in there! Drop your weapons come out at once!
Echidna: ......
Soldier: Are you Echidna, the leader of the rebel forces?
Villager: Miss Echidna, I’m sorry! They took my family hostage to make me talk...
Echidna: Don’t worry, I understand. Leave this to me. Hurry home to your family now.
Villager: I’m sorry...really.
Soldier: If you surrender peacefully, perhaps Bishop Oro will have mercy on you.
Echidna: Sorry, but I’m sorta the stubborn type.
Soldier: Do you resist? Then we have no choice. Kill her!
 
Oro: What is taking so long!? Are the rebel forces that much of a problem?
Soldier: It’s the Lycia Alliance Army! They’re helping the rebels!
Oro: What!? The Lycia Alliance would turn against Etruria!?
Soldier: We have just received a message from the capital at Djuto! It says... ‘The Lycia Alliance Army is responsible for the murder of Duke Nord, and is suspected of treachery against Etruria. They may be allied with the bandits. Capture them!'
Oro: So they killed Nord... It looks like they’ve come up with a good excuse to get rid of the Alliance Army. Hahaha... Allied with the bandits. eh? How ironic...
Soldier: Lord Arcard has also provided us with some reinforcements to help us defeat the Lycia Alliance Army. They should be arriving shortly.
Oro: How generous! He said to capture them, but he probably plans on killing them anyway. Let us do the job for him! Kill them all!
Soldier: Yes, Bishop Oro!

@Recruit-Talk 
%Clarine,Klein
Clarine: Klein!
Klein: Clarine!? You were safe! Thank goodness...
Clarine: I’m sorry I left without telling you... But I wanted to see you so badly.
Klein: The things you would do... Well, you’re safe, and that’s what matters. And what brings you out here? Did you find someone trustworthy to hire?
Clarine: No, I joined the Lycia Alliance Army and have been fighting alongside them.
Klein: The Lycia Alliance Army!?
Clarine: Yes, my healing staves have been very useful!
Klein: ..I see. I thought your eyes looked...sharper.
Clarine: I’m now a lady, I am.
Klein: ...Let me ask you this. What kind of an individual is General Roy?
Clarine: Hmm... He lacks a little finesse for a noble... I especially think that he has to take care of his hair a little better...
Klein: ...Let me rephrase the question. Is General Roy working with the bandits and attacking the people living on these islands?
Clarine: No, of course not! We are here to defeat the bandits!
Klein: I see...
Clarine: The Etrurians here are all malicious and evil people...it is so embarrassing! Klein...are you working for them?
Klein: No. At least not any after I heard your story.
Clarine: What?
Klein: I was sent here to protect the villagers. To fulfill my mission, I will hereby join the Lycia Alliance Army.
Clarine: Klein!
Klein: Then let’s go, shall we? Will you introduce me to General Roy?
Clarine: Of course! I love you, Klein.

%Klein,Thea
Klein: Thea!
Thea: General Klein! What is the matter?
Klein: I’ve made up my mind. We’re going to fight alongside General Roy in the Lycia Alliance Army.
Thea: Understood, sir. Then we will as well.
Klein: Aren’t you going to ask why?
Thea: We are mercenaries. We follow our employer’s every order. Besides...
Klein: Besides...?
Thea: I trust your judgment, General Klein.
Klein: Thank you, Thea.

%Larum,Echidna
Larum: Echidna!
Echidna: Larum? You were all right? Good... If something happened to you, I wouldn’t know what to say to Elffin.
Larum: I’m sorry... If I hadn’t been caught, I could have told you about this earlier...
Echidna: It’s okay. Don’t worry.
Larum: But...
Echidna: Don’t cry over spilled milk. That’s not like you. And besides, I’m all in one piece. So everything’s fine, right?
Larum: ...Yeah.
Echidna: So anyway, who’s the army attacking the castle right now?
Larum: Roy and the Lycia Alliance Army! They came here to defeat the bandits.
Echidna: Lycia, eh? They’ve sure come a long ways to get here... And does it look like they’ll help us out?
Larum: Yeah! They helped me, too.
Echidna: All right, then I guess I’ll join, too! That’s okay, isn’t it?
Larum: Really? That would be great! I’m sure Roy would be glad, too.

@Boss 
Oro: Challenging me...is the equivalent of challenging God Himself. Take your punishment from my hands!

Oro: You…you heathen… I…represent God… Gah…!
 
%Elen,Oro
Elen: You are...a priest, are you not?
Oro: What of it? Anything can go unpunished if done in the name of God! Convenient, is it not?
Elen: ...That’s unforgivable.

%Saul,Oro
Saul: Well, we certainly have an evil bishop here, now, don’t we?
Oro: I am simply living life the way I see fit. Anything can go unpunished if done in the name of God. Convenient, is it not?
Saul: You disgrace God... You shall pay for that!

@End 
Merlinus: Master Roy, there is a young man here to see you. He says he is a member of the rebels...
Roy: I’ll see him. Let him pass.
Elffin: Are you Master Roy? Pleased to meet you, my name is Elffin. I am a member of the rebel forces here.
Roy: I am Roy of the Lycia Alliance Army.
Elffin: You have my thanks for saving our village here.
Roy: No, we simply did what we felt was right.
Elffin: But now you have rebelled against Etruria. Certainly you had thought of that before you took action?
Roy: Of course. As I said, we did what we felt was right. Although what we did is a sign of rebellion against Etruria, if the truth about these islands is made public, they will understand. I have sent a letter to a trustworthy member of the Etrurian court. If she takes the appropriate measures, I think we can tip the tables in our favor.
Elffin: I would not be so sure of that...
Roy: What do you mean?
Elffin: Did you ever think it odd...that Etruria sent you, in particular, to get rid of the bandits?
Roy: Yes... Of course we did.
Elffin: This is merely a theory... But I believe that the ones who requested your help are Advisor Roartz and Lord Arcard.
Roy: ...How do you know that?
Elffin: Why did they have to get your army off the mainland? Could there be some some sort of problem if you stayed in Lycia?
Roy: Oh... I never thought of it that way...
Elffin: There are rumors...that Roartz and Arcard are actually tied in with Bern.
Roy: What!? Then Lycia would be in danger!
Merlinus: M-Master Roy!
Elffin: Your country could be peril. Are you sure you want to be wasting your time on a little island like this?
Merlinus: He’s right! If Bern wanted to get us away from Lycia so they could invade, then we must return at once...
Roy: ...I’m not going back.
Merlinus: What!? Why!?
Elffin: ......
Roy: Right now, it’s very difficult to judge what information is true and what is false. The worst thing to do is is to simply jump to information presented in front of you. Sure, I’m worried about Lycia...but my father is there, and General Cecilia also promised to take care of our land. But our army is the only one stationed on these islands.
Merlinus: That’s true, but...
Roy: If we just leave without fully clearing out the bandits, then what we did so far would all be a lie...
Elffin: ...I see you are blessed with a wise leader.
Roy: What?
Elffin: Master Roy, I am sorry that I tried you so.
Merlinus: Tried us? So what you said was a lie!?
Elffin: I have not lied. But, I did present the rumor in such a way that you would easily jump to it. But Master Roy kept his head. I feel that I would like to serve an individual like you. Master Roy, please count me among your ranks.
Roy: ...I don’t like the idea that you were testing us, but if you’re willing to help, then we will welcome you.
Elffin: Then...
Roy: Yes, please fight alongside us. Well, then, back to business. What can we do to help the people on these isles?
Elffin: We must go to Djuto. The Etrurian capital is there. We must crush it to fully liberate the people.
Roy: All right. We’re going to Djuto! We will fight for the people living here, and to defeat our true enemy!
 
Man: Ah, are you General Roy?
Roy: Yes.
Man: You saved our village. Please take this as a token of our gratitude.
 
Soldier: General Klein, we will stay here and restructure the area, as you directed us.
Klein: Good.
Soldier: We wish we could fight alongside you. Oh, and here, here is the arrow that you had us keep. I will give it back to you. Farewell, and good luck, General Klein.
Klein: Thank you.
 
Soldier: Captain! We will return to Ilia to make our report.
Thea: Thanks.
Soldier: Oh, and this... Your sister gave it to me before we left. Please be careful...
Thea: Thank you. You be careful too.
@Opening 
In order to speak to the resistance force about the bandits on the Western Isles, Roy and company move west along the coastline. Along the way, they come across a small village caught in conflict. The local lord oppresses the resistance and does anything he can to get rid of them...

@Intro 
Zinc: Have you not found that resistance bard yet?
Soldier: We have a good lead, milord.
Zinc: Out with it then. Where is he?
Soldier: He's apparently in hiding in the nearby village.
Zinc: Removing Elffin the Bard will sever the brain behind the resistance force. Find him. Burn the village to the ground if you have to!
Soldier: Yes, milord!

Zinc: I apologize for the wait, Madam Melady.
Melady: You seem to have...a full plate.
Zinc: Oh, worry not, our obligations to Bern take priority over all. If you need anything, please don't hesitate to ask.
Melady: Then let's get to the matter we discussed earlier...
Zinc: Ah, the whereabouts of Princess Guinivere.
Melady: Have you found anything, Lord Zinc?
Zinc: I regret to say that I have not. Have you been to Djuto?
Melady: I have.
Zinc: Then I suggest you pay a visit to Father Oro. He resides in the castle at Mt Ebrakhm to the north. He knows the region better than any of us, so he may have some idea. However, if even he does not know where Princess Guinivere might be, then she is most likely not in the Isles.
Melady: Thank you. I will speak with Father Oro then. Farewell.

Roy: The resistance is supposedly very active in this area.
Merlinus: Yes, that's what our sources say. But I also hear that Etruria's military is hunting down members of the resistance. Their numbers have apparently dwindled.
Roy: ...Etruria does nothing about bandits but oppresses the resistance? Something is very wrong with this picture...
Merlinus: Indeed it is.
Roy: Can we do anything to help the resistance?
Merlinus: Our hands are tied... To do so would directly oppose Etruria's nobility. We are here under Etruria's orders, remember.
Roy: I'll send a letter to General Cecilia and see what she has to say. Let's not do anything too rash just yet.

Soldier: Lord Roy! Etrurian troops are attacking the village to find a member of the resistance force! They're under orders from Lord Zinc, the noble who controls this area.
Merlinus: Oh no!... But should we intervene?
Roy: We haven't the time to await General Cecilia's reply... But I want to help the people. ...Even if it means opposing an Etrurian noble.
Merlinus: Lord Roy...
Roy: We fight! Our purpose is just! Make Lycia proud!

@Battle 
Galle: Were you able to ascertain Princess Guinivere's whereabouts?
Melady: Unfortunately, no. But a bishop named Orlo in charge of the mines in the north may know.
Galle: Very well. Then we head north.
Melady: Galle... I'm sorry. King Zephiel wanted to keep the matter of Princess Guinivere a secret, so only I was assigned to search for her. I'm sorry to get you mixed up in this...
Galle: Don't worry yourself.
Melady: But you work directly under General Murdock. Surely you have other duties.
Galle: General Murdock agreed to allow me to assist you. He thinks it's vital we find the princess and the Fire Emblem.
Melady: ...Do you think Princess Guinivere has the Fire Emblem?
Galle: That's what His Majesty the king thinks. And I think he's correct, all things considered.
Melady: ......
Galle: Come now, don't be like that. I'm sure Princess Guinivere went with good intentions. Let's hurry now.
Melady: You're right...

Elffin: ...Where...am I...?
Mary: Are you awake?
Elffin: ...What...happened...?
Mary: We found you lying at the entrance to the village, covered in wounds. We took you home and have been taking care of you.
Elffin: Thank you... But you are...?
Mary: My name is Mary. I live in this village.
Elffin: ...You live here... Oh no! My very presence endangers this village... ...It may even be too late...
Mary: I'm sorry?
Elffin: I am Elffin... One of the resistance force. The lord here is sure to send troops in to capture me.
Mary: The resistance force...
Elffin: Lady Mary, you should leave here. The village is in danger.
Mary: ...No, I will stay.
Elffin: ...Why?
Mary: I have a younger brother, but he left with his friend next door to find work. I'm taking care of his friend's sister. I can't abandon her.
Elffin: I understand... The most I can do to protect this village is leave. I thank you again for tending to my wounds. Please take care.
Mary: Yes, you too.

Zinc: What is going on out there? Why is it taking so long to find a single member of the resistance?!
Soldier: It's the Lycian Army! They've joined the battle on behalf of the villagers...
Zinc: The Lycian Army? They would betray Etruria?!
Soldier: Also, milord, we have received a missive from Djuto. They Lycian Army is suspected of working with the bandits. The missive says to take them dead or alive.
Zinc: Oh, really? They have ties with bandits? The irony! Those fools only want to save face...
Soldier: Excuse me, milord?
Zinc: This is not the mainland. The Isles are ruled by might.
Soldier: I'm not quite sure I understand...
Zinc: Pay it no mind. Was that all the message from Djuto said?
Soldier: There's more. Lord Arcard has provided us with reinforcements.
Zinc: What?!
Soldier: They should arrive soon.
Zinc: Confound it! We won't get credit for defeating Lycia if we're aided by reinforcements! We must wrap this up before they can join the fight... Ah, I've an idea! Get me Scollan!
Soldier: Yes, milord.

Scollan: You called, Lord Zinc?
Zinc: Burn down the village. Kill any who resist.
Scollan: ...Can we take the loot?
Zinc: Do as you wish. Just do it quickly.
Scollan: You can count on us, Lord Zinc. Heh heh heh...

Scollan: Gonzalez! Where are you, Gonzalez?!
Gonzalez: Here... I here...
Scollan: There's a village to the south. With me so far?
Gonzalez: With you so far.
Scollan: Good. It might be a base for the resistance. Zinc says to burn it to the ground, village and all.
Gonzalez: Village and all...
Scollan: Good, you understand. Now get goin'! Don't screw this one up, you dimwit.
Gonzalez: I... I...
Scollan: You got a problem? Does your head hurt from thinking too much?
Gonzalez: N-No...

Scollan: Heh, he's ugly as sin, but he's got a heart of gold. There's nothing wrong with tearin' down a few houses. Are we clear, wretches? No questions?
Bandit: We got it, boss!

Klein: That's the Lycian Army...
Thea: They were assigned to fight against the bandits...
Klein: I know. But Lord Arcard says they're allied with the bandits now. Why they're doing exactly the opposite of their assignment is beyond me...
Thea: .....
Klein: Thea, take your soldiers and attack from the north. I'll commence the attack from here.
Thea: Yes, sir.
Klein: Thea! Hold on.
Thea: Yes, sir?
Klein: I hear that you have siblings.
Thea: Yes, sir, I have two sisters. One older, one younger.
Klein: Are they pegasus knights like you?
Thea: They are, actually. Why do you ask?
Klein: I have a younger sister myself...
Thea: Any sister of yours must be enchanting.
Klein: Yes, she is a sight. I heard, however, she got tangled up in some mess and now she's missing.
Thea: What? Oh my...
Klein: I have some people looking into it, but they've yet to find anything. If I didn't have this mission, I would search for her myself.
Thea: .....
Klein: Thea, be careful out there. For your family's sake.
Thea: Yes, sir. Thank you.

Klein: Ready then? Let's move.
Soldier: Sir, are you sure?
Klein: Of what?
Soldier: Lord Arcard said Ilia's pegasus knights are expendable. They should be fighting on the front line, not us. Surely the lives of us Eturian soldiers are more valuable.
Klein: Don't be ridiculous. They are reliable companions. We will attack at the same time...or before them, if need be. Understood?
Soldier: Yes, sir.

Klein: ...Lord Arcard's story is curious, though... The army from Lycia only arrived very recently. How could they create ties with the bandits so quickly...?

Soldier: Lord Zinque, the reinforcements from Jutes should arrive shortly.
Zinc: Blast! We have enough problems as it is...

Thea: Are you ready? We move southward!
Soldier: Captain... Are you sure we'll be all right?
Thea: Is something wrong?
Soldier: The Etrurian army may consider us disposable and send us to the front...
Thea: Where did you hear that?
Soldier: One of the other riders heard a rumor from the Etrurian army.
Thea: Pay no mind to mere rumors.
Soldier: But...
Thea: I'm certain Commander Klein would never approve of that.
Soldier: Do you really think so?
Thea: Commander Klein's not like that. I trust him with my life.
Soldier: ...Very well. Then we'll trust him as well, for we trust you, Captain.
Thea: Good. Let's go!

@Recruit-Talk 
%Lilina,Gonzalez
Lilina: Excuse me!
Gonzalez: W-what you doing?! I am enemy!
Lilina: I know... But there's such a look of sorrow in your eyes.
Gonzalez: ...There is a village near mountain. You know?
Lilina: Yes, I know it.
Gonzalez: Tell people escape. I have order. Destroy village. I...
Lilina: What? Don't! The villagers are innocent...
Gonzalez: No. It order. I must.
Lilina: It sounds to me like you should leave the person who gave you that order.
Gonzalez: Leave?
Lilina: Yes! You can fight with us. We're protecting the villagers.
Gonzalez: No... I monster... People mean to me... People throw stones... People say "Go away!"... "You a monster!"... Not human...
Lilina: That's horrible! Of course you're human! You're a very kind-hearted man. I can tell. Please, come with us. Don't be afraid.
Gonzalez: Me afraid? I never afraid! Everyone afraid of ME! I not afraid!
Lilina: No. You ARE afraid. You're afraid that people will throw stones and call you a monster.
Gonzalez: ......
Lilina: But you don't have to be afraid of us. Everyone in our army is nice. They won't do that to you. Be brave... Take that first step, and you'll never have to be afraid again.

%Roy,Klein
Roy: Wait! Aren't you an Etrurian commander? Why are you attacking us?!
Klein: I have specific orders from Lord Arcard to take you down.
Roy: Can't you see what's happening here? The people are suffering from the lords' abusive treatment! And you're helping them. You should be ashamed!
Klein: ...Wait. Are you saying that you're helping the villagers?
Roy: Yes. The lord here is ransacking the village in search of the resistance. We're fighting to stop him. And you're apparently on his side.
Klein: I had no such intention. My orders stated that you were the ones working with the bandits.
Roy: What?! Why would we be working with bandits? We just want to clean things up here and get home to Lycia!
Klein: ...Such nerve.
Roy: What?!
Klein: Lord Arcard has made a fool of me. I have been so blind enough not to see through his thin veil of deceit.
Roy: ...Do you see what we see now?
Klein: I am Klein of House Reglay of Etruria. Forgive me for my misguided attack against you.
Roy: I am General Roy of the Lycian Army.
Klein: General Roy, I would advise you to be cautious. With you against Lord Arcard, I expect him to use every pawn at his disposal to have you dealt with.
Roy: Thank you for the advice...
Klein: If you would allow it, I will join you.
Roy: You will?
Klein: Yes. I wish to monitor you as an Etrurian commander. I should prove useful as both a fighter and a diplomat.
Roy: Thank you.

%Clarine,Klein 
Clarine: Klein!
Klein: Clarine? You are safe!
Clarine: I'm sorry I left like I did. But I wanted so badly to see you!
Klein: Oh, the trouble you get into... Well, you're safe, and that's what matters. ...What brings you out here? Did you find a trustworthy mercenary for hire?
Clarine: No, I joined the Lycian Army.
Klein: The Lycian Army?!
Clarine: Yes! My healing staves have been most useful!
Klein: ...I see. I thought your eyes looked...sharper.
Clarine: I'm a lady now, I am.
Klein: ...Let me ask you this. What kind of individual is General Roy?
Clarine: Hmm... He's a tad rough around the edges for a noble... His hair especially is an absolute mess...
Klein: ...Let me rephrase that. Is General Roy working with the bandits?
Clarine: No, of course not! We've been sent here to vanquish the bandits!
Klein: So I heard...
Clarine: The Eturians here are malicious people... It is so embarrassing. Klein... Are you working for them?
Klein: No. Not anymore.
Clarine: What?
Klein: I was sent here to protect the villages. I hereby join the Lycian Army to fulfill my mission.
Clarine: Thank you, Klein!
Klein: Shall we, then? Will you introduce me to General Roy?
Clarine: Naturally! I love you, Klein.

%Thea,Shanna
Shanna: T-Thea! Sister!
Thea: Shanna...?
Shanna: What are you doing here?
Thea: ...I have a contract with Commander Klein of Etruria. Shanna... Are you with the Lycian Army?
Shanna: Yes.
Thea: I see... Then this was inevitable. Draw your lance!
Shanna: No, Commander Klein said he would join us! We don't have to fight!
Thea: What? Really?
Shanna: Yes!
Thea: ...That's a relief. I will join you as well.
Shanna: Thanks, Sister!

%Klein,Thea
Klein: Thea!
Thea: Commander Klein! What is the matter?
Klein: There's been a change of plans. We are going to fight under General Roy of the Lycian Army.
Thea: Understood, sir. We shall follow you without question.
Klein: I don't mind a question here or there, to be frank.
Thea: We are Ilian mercenaries, sir. We follow our employer's every order. And besides...
Klein: Yes?
Thea: I trust you to make proper judgments.
Klein: Thank you, Thea.

@Boss-Talk 
%Thea,Shanna
Shanna: T-Thea! Sister!
Thea: Shanna...?
Shanna: What are you doing here?
Thea: ...I have a contract with Commander Klein of Etruria. Shanna... Are you with the Lycian Army?
Shanna: Yes.
Thea: I see... Then this was inevitable. Draw your lance!
Shanna: No... I don't want to fight you!
Thea: ...Shanna, you know the code of the Ilian mercenaries.
Shanna: ...Never betray your employer...
Thea: Precisely. And we must follow that code, even if it means we must fight our own kin.
Shanna: But...one of us could be killed!
Thea: I know that! But we must fight! Failing to do so would damage the reputation of the Ilian mercenaries. Our nation can't afford to lose its mercenary contracts!
Shanna: Thea...
Thea: Now, draw your lance, Shanna!...Why... Why does it have to be like this...?

@Visit 
House: I wonder how Mary's doing... Her brother and his friend are both traveling, trying to make money. It's too dangerous to go outside now... Can you go check on her? Here, I'll give you this for your trouble... 

House: A few months ago, my granddaughter went missing. We all searched in the mountains and found her. She was with a hulking monster of a man, so we threw stones at him to drive him off... Afterwards my granddaughter told me that he was the one who led her to the village. ...If you ever find that man, would you give him this? It's a special axe that's effective against swords. And...tell him I'm sorry. 

House: I hate the resistance! We civilians have to deal with the consequences of their actions. You know we stand no chance if we try to stand up to our lord. We just want to lead a normal life. Oh... I'm sorry. I'm just frustrated. I have no useful skills so I can't help you... but take this... 

House: ...The resistance suffered a crippling defeat here. Here, take this. I'm going to look for other survivors. There is still hope if we can find our leader.

House: Ah, our heroes! I thank you on behalf of the village. This is made from the scale of a dragon. It's said it will protect the one who uses it from harm. Please, take it.

Myu: It's Wade!
Wade: Hey, Myu! ...Come on, can't you call me UNCLE Wade?
Myu: But... You're just Wade.
Wade: Ah, never mind. You look like you've gotten bigger.
Myu: Yeah!
Wade: ...It's dangerous here. Go hide in the hills.
Myu: ...Alone?
Wade: My sister's still here, right? She'll take you.
Myu: Yeah, Auntie Mary's here.
Wade: So she's Auntie Mary but I'm just Wade, huh?
Myu: Oh. Here you go.
Wade: What's this? A wing?
Myu: It'll make you like a bird!
Wade: Like a bird? What's that mean?
Myu: Like a bird. You know.
Wade: No, I don't know. But, uh, anyway, this is for me?
Myu: No, it's for Big Brother Lot.
Wade: And Lot is Big Brother Lot... Have you got it out for me?
Myu: Ha ha ha! I'll go see Mary. Here's the wing. Give it to Lot, OK, Uncle Wade?
Wade: And NOW she calls me Uncle... Woah, are you OK?! Don't trip...

Myu: Brother! You're home!
Lot: Myu! Have you been a good girl?
Myu: Yes, I was good! I didn't even wet my bed!
Lot: That's my girl.
Myu: Lot... While you were away, Mother...
Lot: Yeah, I know... She went to sleep...
Myu: Here... Mother left this for you. She said you might find a use for it.
Lot: ......
Myu: Brother... You won't leave me, will you? You won't go to sleep like Mother...?
Lot: Of course not! In fact, next time you see me I'll have a whole wagon of presents. Just listen to Mary and stay good, all right?
Myu: OK!
Lot: Go hide in the hills with Mary. It's dangerous here.
Myu: I will... And Lot?
Lot: Yeah?
Myu: You promised! Don't leave me!
Lot: I won't...

Mary: Have you seen my brother? His name is Wade, and he's a mercenary... Have you at least heard of him? Well, take this for your trouble.

Mary: Wade!
Wade: Sis! It's good to see you.
Mary: You've returned?
Wade: Well, not exactly... We're here on a mission.
Mary: ...You're never coming back, are you?
Wade: No! Of course I will! ...Just not yet. Just you wait. When I come back I'll have more money than I can carry. Then all our problems will be a thing of the past.
Mary: I don't care about that... I just want you safe.
Wade: Sis...
Mary: I know how brash and hotheaded you can be, but always remember... There are people who care about you.
Wade: ......
Mary: Here, take this.
Wade: What is it?
Mary: It's a special weapon. I nursed a traveler back to health, and he left it in return. You can use it, can't you?
Wade: Thanks, Sis! I've gotta go now.
Mary: Just be careful...

Lot: Mary...
Mary: Lot! You've returned?
Lot: No... We just stopped by on a mission.
Mary: Oh... Myu will be sad.
Lot: Ever since mother died, I've been making you take care of Myu. I'm sorry.
Mary: No... don't be...
Lot: Someday...
Mary: !
Lot: Someday I'll return. ...Can I leave Myu to you until then?
Mary: ...Can you promise?
Lot: ... Yes.
Mary: Don't lie... You're going to war. There's no saying you'll return.
Lot: ......
Mary: But I'll be waiting. Without false hope...
Lot: I'm sorry.
Mary: Oh, take this.
Lot: What?
Mary: It's a magic weapon that will help you keep your promise.
Lot: Thank you, I appreciate it. Well then... I must be off.
Mary: Be careful...

@Boss 
Zinc: The people are suffering...? What concern is that to me? They live to serve me. Their wails are meaningless.

Zinc: This is my land... Mine alone... None...shall...

@End 
Merlinus: Lord Roy, there is a young man claiming to be with the resistance here.
Roy: I'll see him. Let him pass.
Elffin: I am pleased to meet you. My name is Elffin. I am a member of the resistance force.
Roy: I am Roy of the Lycian Army.
Elffin: You have my thanks for saving the village here.
Roy: We simply did what we believe is right.
Elffin: But now you stand against Etruria.
Roy: Even so, I have no regrets. We may have opposed Etruria's immediate interests, but once the truth about the Isles is out, I'm certain they will understand. I sent a letter to a trustworthy Etrurian noble. If she takes appropriate measures, they will send us aid.
Elffin: I would not be so sure...
Roy: Why is that?
Elffin: Don't you find it unusual that Etruria sent you here in the first place?
Roy: Actually...yes, I do.
Elffin: This is merely conjecture... But was it High Chancellor Roartz and Lord Arcard who requested your help?
Roy: ...It was.
Elffin: Why were they so eager to get your army off the mainland, I wonder? Perhaps your presence in Lycia was undesirable to them.
Roy: I never even considered that...
Elffin: There are rumors...that Roartz and Arcard are working with Bern.
Roy: What?! Then Lycia is in danger!
Merlinus: L-Lord Roy!
Elffin: Your country may be in peril. Are you free to waste your time on the Isles as you are?
Merlinus: He's right! Bern wanted us out of Lycia so they could launch an invasion! We must head back at once!
Roy: ...We stay here.
Merlinus: What?! Why?!
Elffin: ......
Roy: It's difficult to judge what may be hearsay and what may be truth. We can't simply jump on this information and run back to Lycia. I am certainly concerned, but my father and General Cecilia are there. The people on the Isles have only us to rely on.
Merlinus: That may be, but...
Roy: If we leave without finishing our mission, then all we've done here was for naught.
Elffin: ...Your army is blessed with a wise leader.
Roy: What?
Elffin: Lord Roy, I am sorry for testing you so.
Merlinus: Testing us? So that was a lie?!
Elffin: It was the truth. However, I presented the rumor in a way that you might take rash action. Your leader is an admirable individual. I would join you if you will allow it.
Roy: ...I don't like that you tested us. But if you can help, I welcome you. Now then, back to the topic at hand. What can we do to help the people of the Isles?
Elffin: You should head south...towards Caldonia.
Roy: Why?
Elffin: Castle Edina is located there. It is where workers are kept before they are sent to Eburacum.
Roy: Then we must save the people there!
Elffin: Lord Roy, please take this sword.
Roy: What is this?
Elffin: It is called a wyrmslayer. It was created during the Scouring to use against dragons. It is effective against wyverns as well.
Roy: Wyrmslayer? Is this a legendary weapon?
Elffin: No. Legendary weapons can only be used by those whose skill rivals the Eight Legends. This weapon, however, can be wielded by anyone with experience in swordplay.

Mary: Are you the leader of this army?
Roy: Yes, I am.
Mary: I wish to thank you for protecting our village.
Roy: There is no thanks necessary... We did what we believe is right.
Mary: Regardless, I want you to have this as a token of our gratitude.

Soldier: Commander Klein, we will stay and help with reconstruction as directed.
Klein: Good. These people need you.
Soldier: Would that we could fight at your side. Here is the bolt we were holding for you. You may need it more than we do. Farewell and good luck, Commander Klein.
Klein: Thank you. Good luck to you as well.

Soldier: Captain! We will return to Ilia to make our report.
Thea: Very good. Thank you for your service.
Soldier: Oh, and take this... Your sister gave it to me before we left. Please be careful...
Thea: Thank you. You too.@Opening 
Man and dragon once coexisted in harmony. However, man shattered that harmony with a sudden onslaught. A great war now known as The Scouring was fought for dominion of the land. Losses were tremendous for both sides, and in this war the very laws of nature itself were twisted and distorted, bringing chaos and unease..."

Defeated and humbled, the dragons disappeared from the realm. Mankind then began to rebuild and repopulate their newly won land.

A millennium has passed since then...

After defeating the dragons, the humans of Elibe quickly spread their culture and civilization to the farthest reaches of the continent..

In the west lies the Kingdom of Etruria, which is widely considered to possess the most refined culture in all of Elibe. The Kingdom of Bern, with its powerful military and logical, pragmatic people, is located on the other side of the continent in the east.

These are the two most powerful nations in Elibe, with the weaker nations situated between them.

These smaller lands are the Lycian League, whose numerous territories are independently ruled by a number of marquesses that are bound by a vow of allegiance; Ilia, where the people arduously till the frozen soil and many become mercenaries to earn money to survive; and Sacae, where various clans ride through the plains on horseback.

Although there were occasional clashes between these nations, the majority of the people of Elibe lived in peace. That peace, however, was not to last...

King Zephiel of Bern has commanded his forces to conquer the entirety of Elibe. Bern's armies first attacked Sacae and Ilia, ruthlessly massacring all who opposed them. Now, Bern is mounting a merciless invasion into Lycia.

Pherae is a territory of Lycia known for its beauty and honorable lords. Pherae's Lord Roy was in Ostia, Lycia's largest territory, when the invasion began. He had been sent to study to become the next marquess of the Pherae territory. However, the sitting marquess and Roy's father, Eliwood, who has been ill, has sent for Roy to return to lead Pherae's soldiers in defending against Bern.

Marquess Hector of Ostia leads the council of lords in Lycia. At the same time Eliwood sent for Roy, Marquess Ostia's daughter Lilina was in Pherae visiting Eliwood, who is Marquess Ostia's long-time friend and confidant.

Upon receiving his father's message, Roy hurries home, taking with him his vassals and Bors, a knight from Ostia who is responsible for Lilina's safety. The story begins when Roy reaches the outskirts of Pherae...

@Intro 
Bandit: Boss! They've all hidden themselves inside the castle!
Damas: Heh. Even Eliwood, the greatest knight in Lycia, is no match for an illness, it seems.
Bandit: Hee hee hee... You were right when you said there wouldn't be many soldiers. They're all getting ready to defend against Bern!
Damas: Of course I was right. I'm always right, you fool. But reinforcements could be here any minute. All right, you curs, listen up! Kill everyone in the castle while we still got time! Then we can waltz outta here with all the loot!
Bandit: Heh heh, castles ain't the only places with loot. Let's go ransack the village and take everything they've got!

Merlinus: Lord Eliwood! We're under attack by bandits from Mount Bolm!
Eliwood: I understand. Thank you, Merlinus... Blast it! Were I not in this pitiful state, I would take care of them all myself...!
Lilina: Lord Eliwood...?
Eliwood: Lilina, you must hide yourself. This castle is going to become a war zone.
Lilina: No, my lord. I can fight, too!
Eliwood: Don't be absurd. I couldn't face Hector if something happened to you in my own castle.
Lilina: My father? But...
Eliwood: It's going to be all right. Roy should be here any moment, so we just need to hold our own until then. He'll drive off these dastards. Merlinus! Send a messenger to Roy to let him know the current situation! We need his help!
Merlinus: Y-Yes, milord!

Roy: Oh, it's Lance! What's the matter? Why are you in such a hurry?
Lance: Lord Roy! Bandits have appeared and are attacking the castle as we speak!
Alen: No! Is the marquess unharmed?
Lance: He's inside, defending against the bandits' attack. But I don't know how long he can last with his illness...!
Bors: Excuse me. Lance, is it? Is Lady Lilina safe?
Lance: You must be a knight of Ostia. Lady Lilina is in the castle. She should be all right. She's with Lord Eliwood after all, but he can't last forever.
Roy: No... I shouldn't have let Lilina go to the castle before me.
Wolt: Lord Roy, regret won't solve anything! We must retake the castle!
Marcus: Wolt is right. We must make haste!
Roy: Yes, you're right. This is no time to despair. Very well. To arms then! Our target is the castle! We must rescue everyone!

@Battle 
Damas: Dammit! Reinforcements already?! But they ain't gettin' to the castle so easy!

@Visit 
Village: Hey! Aren't you knights going to the castle? I know this isn't much... But please accept this money on behalf of all of us. Use it well! 

House: Money is important! If you don't have any, you won't be able to replace your broken weapons! And you can't fight without weapons!

House: Listen! If you wanna do well in battle you'd better use terrain wisely. For example, if you're in a forest the trees will cover you! That'll teach your enemies who they're dealing with.

House: We're all doomed... Soldiers from Bern have crossed the border... They laid an awful attack. And even if the allied lords strike back, Lord Eliwood... He can't even stand anymore...

@Boss 
Damas: You bumbling idiots! You can't take on a few pathetic knights?!

Damas: Wh...what the...?! S...so strong...

@End 
Roy: Father! Lilina!
Eliwood: Roy, is that you?
Lilina: Roy!
Roy: Father! Lilina! ... Thank goodness, you're all right.
Eliwood: Roy, thanks for coming this far.
Roy: Of course, father. How is your health?
Eliwood: I'm fine. I'm still alive, see? But Roy, you do know why I called you back here?
Roy: I am to take over your role of leading Pherae's military and join the Lycia Alliance Army.
Eliwood: Yes. As you know, Bern has started to conquer Lycia. We must follow the ancient rule and send out our military to protect the land of Lycia.
Roy: Yes.
Eliwood: I really didn't want to send you out because you were still studying, but I'm not well... I would only be a hindrance to everyone else.
Roy: Father...
Lilina: Mister Eliwood, I will accompany Roy! My father is in charge of Lycia's main army. And I could use my magic to be of some help to Roy...
Eliwood: No, Lilina. You must return to Ostia.
Lilina: ... Why?
Eliwood: With Hector's absence, there is no one currently sitting on the throne of Ostia. The people must be feeling uptight as well. You, being the daughter of the marquess, must take the throne until Hector returns and ease the tension of the people. Am I wrong?
Lilina: ... No, sir.
Eliwood: Roy, first you must go to the Bern border and meet with the mercenary group that I have arranged a contract with. I'll send Merlinus along with you... He'll be very helpful with his knowledge.
Roy: Thank you for everything, father.
Eliwood: You'll be fine. You can do it! Go and fight, and show them who you are, the next Marquess of Pherae!
Roy: Yes!
Lilina: Bors, I have something to ask of you.
Bors: I know, my lady. I will accompany Roy in his travels and swear to protect him with my life.
Lilina: Thank you, Bors. Roy, be careful.
Roy: I know. You too, Lilina.@Opening 
Ostia's military primarily consists of soldiers in heavy defense gear, such as Armor Knights and Generals. With them, Castle Ostia's defenses have always been incredibly strong. For a long time now, the castle has been rumored to be "unconquerable."

However, that rumor was about to be proven wrong. By Roy, who, ironically, wanted to protect the castle.

@Intro 
Leygance: What?! The enemy has broken into the castle? What the hell was Devias doing out there?! Were those knights from Ilia so strong? ... Or was the Lycia Army larger than I expected... In any case, they have gotten into the 'unconquerable' Castle Ostia!
Leygance: We must drive them out, or Bern will look down upon us... You over there!
Soldier: Yes, sir!
Leygance: Set up the troops all over the castle! Especially around the throne room! Prepare your defenses! We must not let the Lycia Army get any further into the castle!
Soldier: Understood sir!
Leygance: One more thing. I want you to discreetly kill Lilina during the battle.
Soldier: What? ... Sir, weren't we supposed to keep her alive?
Leygance: I was planning on using her as a hostage. But there are still many rebels that put faith in her. If we openly use her as a hostage, those soldiers might turn against us.
Soldier: But in that case sir, they would surely turn on us if we kill her!
Leygance: So I said to do it discreetly, didn't I?! Kill her quietly, and pretend that she was hit by a stray arrow. Then we can make the enemy responsible for it! Now go!
Soldier: Yes, sir...

Astore: ... General Roy of the Lycia Alliance Army, I presume.
Roy: ! Who are you? An enemy?!
Astore: No, I'm on your side. Greetings, my name is Astore. I used to work here in the service of Lord Hector.
Merlinus: Excuse me, but what kind of work were you doing? You certainly don't look like one of Ostia's servants...
Astore: My, my, aren't we a little rude, old man? See, I'm a spy. I go on secret missions to gather information, steal things, check on people... that kind of thing.
Merlinus: Hmm, I see.
Astore: If people can tell that I'm working for a noble just by looking at me, then I'm not much of a spy, am I? Anyway, for a month now, I've been running around Lycia to gather the latest news. When I heard about Lord Hector's death in Araphen, I returned here as quickly as I could. Then I see that those idiots, Leygance and Devias, have caused a rebellion! I didn't make it in time to save Lord Hector, but I don't want to be too late for Lady Lilina.
Roy: Then you'll join us? Good, let's work together to rescue her. Do you know where Lilina is?
Astore: Of course, investigating into matters like that is my job. Lady Lilina is locked into a small room in the center of the castle. And that dastard Leygance is sitting on the throne like he owns the place.
Roy: We have to hurry then. We must defeat the rebels and rescue Lilina before Narcian arrives from Bern!

@Battle 
Lilina: What's all that noise? Is there a battle going on? I wonder what's happening outside...

Ogier: Sir Barth, this is a dead end!
Barth: Don't worry. This wall has cracks in it. We can break through it if we hit it a little with our weapons.
Wendy: I wonder where Lady Lilina is?
Barth: I have a pretty good idea where she is. We've known this castle for a long time. Hmm, I do wonder what's causing all the noise, though.
Wendy: The Alliance Army? Then my brother must be with them...
Barth: ... We don't know if he's still alive. You shouldn't have such high expectations.
Wendy: Oh... Yes.
Ogier: Sir Barth, you don't have to be so cold. He's Wendy's only brother, right?
Barth: You must never look away from reality.
Ogier: But...
Wendy: It's all right, Ogier. Sir Barth is right.
Barth: As an Armor Knight of Ostia, you must never panic, no matter what the situation. Understood, Wendy?
Wendy: ... Yes.

Cath: Yes! Just as I thought, they're at each other again. I mean, how stupid can these nobles get? I can never understand what the fun is in fighting all the time. Oh well, guess I'll swipe what I can.

@End
Roy: We have finally recaptured the castle, Lilina.
Lilina: Thank you, Roy. I'm glad that my father didn't have to go through the trouble.
Roy: !
Lilina: Roy, is my father still in Araphen? I heard it was a tough battle there, but does it look like it's going to take much longer?
Roy: Lilina... haven't you heard anything?
Lilina: What?
Roy: Lord Hector... has passed away.
Lilina: What...?
Roy: I'm sorry... When we arrived at Castle Araphen... It was already under Bern's control.
Lilina: It's not your fault... Don't apologize.
Roy: Lord Hector was already severely wounded when we arrived. If only we had gotten there faster, maybe I could have helped him...
Lilina: No... it's okay. I... was prepared for this... I'm a warrior's daughter. I've been taught not to panic in times like this.
Roy: Lilina.
Lilina: So everyone should have told me... They're too considerate... I'm strong too, you know...
Roy: Lilina, you don't have to hold back in front of me.
Lilina: Roy... I...
Roy: It's okay... I'll be with you.

Merlinus: Master Roy! Bern's Dragon Knights have appeared at Castle Ostia!
Roy: What! They're here already?

Narcian: Hehehe... Are you Roy? I must thank you for getting rid of that idiot Leygance for me. Now, you will leave Ostia to me.
Roy: Don't be ridiculous! Who would give Ostia to the likes of you..!
Narcian: Oh? Then do you wish to fight us with that sad little group of yours? I shall annihilate you, as I did with Hector!
Roy: Damn!
Unknown person: That's enough!

Soldier: General Narcian! A legion has arrived from Etruria!
Narcian: I can see that, you fool! Why...
Percival: I am Percival, Knight General of Etruria. Yesterday, Sorcery General Cecilia informed me that Ostia had requested Etruria's protection.
Narcian: What...!
Cecilia: You seem discontent. We are prepared for battle. But can those Dragon Knights of yours stand a chance against all of us?
Narcian: You...!
Cecilia: I am Cecilia, Sorcery General of Etruria! Ostia is now under our protection.
Narcian: Argh... You... you...!!!
Soldier: General Narcian, please control your temper! General Percival is one of the strongest warriors in Etruria! And with General Cecilia here as well we'll be slaughtered!
Narcian: I know! We're leaving! Cecilia, is it? Watch your back from now on!

Percival: Are you General Roy of the Lycia Alliance Army?
Roy: Y-Yes! I am in charge of the Alliance Army in the place of Lord Hector.
Percival: I see. Lycia is in a time of hardship. Our king also sends his words of regret for Lord Hector's death.
Roy: Thank you for your consideration. If Etruria hadn't helped us... Ostia would be under Bern's control now. Thank you very much.
Percival: I'm not the one to thank. I simply followed my king's orders. You should thank Cecilia, who went against the king to help you.
Cecilia: She... disobeyed the king's orders?
Percival: Yes, now isn't that something? Well, I must be off. Two of the three Etrurian Generals shouldn't be leaving the country for so long. Cecilia, can you take care of the rest?
Cecilia: Yes. Thank you, Percival. You can leave the rest to me.
Roy: Whew... General Percival... Now he's someone.
Cecilia: Nervous, were you?
Roy: General Cecilia! It is good to see you again.
Cecilia: How are you doing, Roy? You look a little tired, but you seem okay.
Roy: Yes, thanks to Etruria, we were able to avoid disaster.
Cecilia: I'm glad we made it here in time.
Roy: I'm sorry. I put you through a lot of trouble.
Cecilia: No. It's going to be beneficial for Etruria for Ostia to go under our protection.
Roy: Beneficial?
Cecilia: Yes. Bern's been acting aggressively these days, as you know. We also want to do something about it, but since we haven't been directly invaded, we have no reason to go to war with them. But if Bern gets any stronger, the balance of powers would be shattered.
Roy: So when Ostia requested protection, you saw it as a good reason to declare war on Bern?
Cecilia: Right. We just did what would be best for us. You don't need to feel that you're in our debt.
Roy: Yes.
Cecilia: So you shouldn't thank us.
Roy: Understood. I won't. Well anyway, come in and meet the rest of our army.

Cecilia: ... He's gotten so bold in the short time that I haven't seen him. Well, he is a boy, after all.

@Battle-Talk 
%Bors,Wendy 
Wendy: Bors! You're all right!
Bors: Why, is it Wendy? I'm glad to see you're okay too. ...!? What the... What are you wearing? Did you apply to become an Ostian Armor Knight or something?
Wendy: Ah... Actually, I did. I was knighted just yesterday.
Bors: What are you doing... I thought I told you to leave the fighting to us and live your life as you wished! You didn't need to become an Armor Knight...
Wendy: Yes, well, I thought about it, and what I truly want is to become a knight.
Bors: But...
Wendy: I don't want to just wait for you to return from battle. I want to become a knight as great as you.
Bors: ......
Wendy: ... Bors?
Bors: Well, you were always stubborn, weren't you, Wendy?
Wendy: Bors...
Bors: You should live your life as you wish. If Mother and Father were alive, they would say that as well. But the way of the knight is no easy feat!
Wendy: Yes, I'm prepared! I shall never give up!

%Roy,Lilina 
Roy: Lilina!
Lilina: ... Roy? Is it really you?
Roy: Yes!
Lilina: You came! Thank you.
Roy: Thank goodness you're all right. Here, take this spell book. Use it to defend yourself for the time being.
Lilina: Thanks.

%Bors,Lilina 
Bors: Lady Lilina! You are safe!
Lilina: Bors, I am sorry that I worried you.
Bors: Not at all, my Lady! You were alive... That in itself...
Lilina: Thank you, Bors. And you kept your promise that you would protect Roy for me. I knew I was doing the right thing when I asked you.
Bors: Thank you, my Lady!

%Barth,Lilina 
Lilina: Barth!
Barth: Lady Lilina! I am happy to see you are safe.
Lilina: Barth, you were right. Leygance was planning a rebellion.
Barth: ......
Lilina: I'm sorry... If I had believed you in the first place, this wouldn't have happened...
Barth: No... Lady Lilina, you do not have anything to apologize about. The one to be prosecuted is Leygance, who insulted your kind and trusting heart toward him. It is your kindness that we respect the most, my Lady.
Lilina: Barth...

%Roy,Cath 
Roy: It's you!
Cath: Crap... Er, what a coincidence! Hahaha...
Roy: ... If you're in the battlefield just to steal, you shouldn't be. It's not right.
Cath: Don't worry. I only take from the rich who have plenty of money. No one's going to starve or anything.
Roy: That's not the point.
Cath: Oh really? Then let me ask you this. You nobles take food and money from the people living in what you call your territory. Who said that was your land, anyway? And you say you're collecting taxes, but what you're doing is the same. Looting!
Roy: What?! But we protect the people in return...
Cath: But you're not! You're killing your own people, causing a war like this!
Roy: Well... Bern started to invade, so we had to fight to defend our people...
Cath: So you can just do anything you want, as long as you say you're protecting us? You can burn down villages and ruin our crops?
Roy: Burned? We never...! Wait a minute, was your... ?
Cath: ... My village was burned to the ground by our marquess. He said that he had no choice because he needed to prepare for Bern's attacks.
Roy: Well... that's...
Cath: We always had just enough to eat and survive, and then we just lost everything... Our homes... our crops... And then you say not to take from other people? Ha! You shouldn't be talking! You dastards from the nobility take from us so you can live in luxury while we suffer!
Roy: I... don't know what to say.
Cath: Sigh. We're getting all gloomy now. I really don't like talking about 'I'm worse off so you should pity me' arguments. But you're the one who started it.
Roy: I...
Cath: Ah, to heck with this. It's not fun stealing after a talk like that. Well, I guess I better bail out then. See ya!
Roy: .....

@Boss 
Leygance: You vermin of the Alliance Army... Come. I shall cut down all of you!

Leygance: Why? You are only... to be trampled upon by Bern... How can you fight so hard...?

%Bors,Leygance
Leygance: Bors! So you were still alive.
Bors: Of course. Taking Ostia while we weren't around...
Leygance: Is that a problem? Then try and take it back with your own strength and skill

%Lilina,Leygance 
Leygance: Lady Lilina? Damn, you were supposed to be dead by now...
Lilina: Leygance... Why?
Leygance: Times are changing, my Lady. I'm just making sure I don't get left behind. I'm not like Lord Hector, who was too foolish to realize the change.
Lilina: Quiet! You will not insult my father any further!

%Wendy,Leygance
Wendy: General Leygance! You shall rest here!
Leygance: Ah, Bors' sister, is it? It's nice to be brave and all, but can you really defeat me?

%Barth,Leygance 
Barth: Leygance, you fool! Are you not ashamed that you betrayed Lord Hector?!
Leygance: Barth... Shut up. Lord Hector stupidly caused his death. I do not plan on falling with him.
Barth: Why, you...!@Opening 
There is a small village on the border of Pherae and Bern. This is where Roy is to meet the mercenary band that Eliwood hired.

Just east of the village is a small castle occupied by Bern's forces. At the time Roy reaches the village, the castle is in an outright panic. Roy has yet to realize that this confusion going on in the castle will spread, engulfing the entire continent of Elibe in chaos...

@Intro 
Melady: All I want to know is what happened to Princess Guinevere!
Rude: Y-yes, Captain Melady... I'm certain she was in her room this morning, but she simply vanished...
Melady: You told me that already, you buffoon! I don't want excuses! Are you so incompetent you can't understand that?!
Rude: Well... I... Er...
Melady: Our forces are mobilizing to begin a full-scale war with Lycia. How are we to focus on the battle if the princess is missing?! Naturally, you will take full responsibility for her disappearance.
Rude: ......
Melady: I never should have let Her Highness come to the border to begin with. I will return to Bern and inform the king of this matter. I'll try not to cause a panic, but I can't promise your life if the princess isn't found. I trust you'll take every measure to locate her as soon as possible.
Rude: Yes, Captain!

Rude: Is Princess Guinivere secure?
Soldier: Yes, Commander. She's under constant surveillance in the cellar.
Rude: Good. Don't let her escape.
Soldier: But Commander... are you sure this is a good idea?
Rude: Of course I'm sure! The younger sister of King Zephiel... We're sure to get a hefty sum turning her over to one of Bern's enemies.
Soldier: .....
Rude: Loyalty to one's king. Bah. What a worthless notion. The world is ruled by neither king nor queen. It's ruled by gold!
Soldier: Yes, indubitably, Commander.... But there has been a snag, shall we say.
Rude: Hm? What do you mean?
Soldier: I just received a report... It seems that Princess Guinivere's lady-in-waiting has escaped...
Rude: What?! You lout, why didn't you say so earlier? Find her this instant! Don't let her get away!

Merlinus: Lord Roy, this is the location.
Roy: This is where we're supposed to meet the mercenaries?
Merlinus: Yes, though it seems they aren't here yet. Wait, who's that? Somebody's coming this way...
Roy: Be careful there!
Elen: Oh, forgive me! I'm in such a hurry...
Roy: No need for apologies. Are you hurt?
Elen: No, I'm fine. Thank you, good sir.
Roy: Farewell, then.
Elen: ...Are you from Lycia, by chance?
Roy: I am. I am the son of Marquess Pherae.
Elen: Oh, Saint Elimine! Thank you for guiding me to this boy!
Roy: Pardon?
Elen: Please, I need your help to rescue my mistress.
Roy: What happened?
Elen: My name is Elen. I am a cleric of Saint Elimine. My mistress and I came from Bern to seek an audience with the lords of Lycia. However, Commander Rude of the castle east of here trapped us. We were captured, imprisoned by our own countrymen.
Merlinus: Lord Roy! We must avoid unnecessary entanglements with Bern!
Roy: But we can't neglect a noble of Bern who wants to speak with the lords of Lycia... Then again, we can't simply charge into enemy territory either... Wait, who's there?!

Soldier: There's the wench! Over here, boys! Get the girl! Our orders say dead or alive!

Elen: Oh dear...
Roy: Well, Merlinus, they provoked hostilities. I don't think we have any choice now.
Merlinus: You wouldn't listen even if we did, I'm sure. But no matter. Let me witness all you've learned about tactics in Ostia.
Roy: All right, everyone! We're going to charge the castle! Sister Elen, you should find a place to hide...
Elen: No, I will come with you. I cannot fight, but I can heal wounded allies.
Roy: But...
Elen: I'm the one that got you tangled up in this mess. Please let me do what I can to help.
Roy: OK, but just stay behind us so you aren't hurt.
Elen: Certainly. Thank you for the concern.

@Battle 
Dieck: They should be around here somewhere... Shanna, check around and try to find the soldiers from Pherae, will you?
Shanna: Sure!

Wade: So, Big Man, who's our client this time?
Dieck: House Pherae, one of the noble families of Lycia. The marquess's son is going to join the other armies of the Lycian League.
Lot: We're going up against Bern then?
Dieck: Looks that way.
Wade: Finally, a foe worthy of my axe! Let's show 'em what we're made of!
Lot: Bern, eh? This won't be easy, I can tell you that. We had best tread lightly.

Shanna: I think I've found them! But it looks like they're already caught up in a skirmish.
Dieck: What? The fighting's started already? Let's get a move on then. Time to earn our pay!

@Battle-Talk 
%Roy,Dieck
Dieck: Are you Lord Roy of House Pherae?
Roy: Who is it that's asking?
Dieck: Name's Dieck. You should've heard about me from an older man named Merlinus.
Roy: So you're the leader of the mercenary band?
Dieck: Just a small company, really. Sorry we're late. Didn't think the fighting would start so soon.
Roy: Well... There was a complication...
Dieck: Don't take it the wrong way. We don't blame you. Actually, quite the contrary. My boys are excited for a chance to show off their skills.
Roy: Brilliant. It sounds like you're just the caliber of fighters we need.
Dieck: Enough chitchat then. Let's wrap things up.

@Visit 
Village: Armored knights have nearly impenetrable defenses. But some weapons, like this sword, can pierce their armor. I'm sure you can get better use out of it than us. Please, take it. 

House: Pegasi are useful for flying to hard-to-reach places. But woe to any rider who finds herself against an archer. An arrow can take a pegasus down in a single hit!

House: Forts are the key to a good defense. If you're in a fort, you can defend and even dodge more easily. On top of that, your wounds will heal slowly over time.

House: The weapon triangle... Swords, axes and lances. Remember, swords best axes, axes best lances, and lances best swords! Keep this in mind and things will be much easier for you!

@Boss 
Rude: Curse it all! Just when I thought things had finally turned my way...

Rude: Oof... Greed can only...bring you...an ill fate...

@End 
Merlinus: Lord Roy! There was a woman locked in the cellar!
Roy: That must be Elen's mistress. Bring her here.
Merlinus: Yes, milord.

Elen: Your Highness!
Guinevere: Elen! I'm so relieved you're well. You put yourself in such danger running off like you did... I worried myself sick about you.
Elen: I am sorry, Your Highness, but I couldn't leave you in that dank cellar...
Guinevere: Don't worry yourself, Elen. It's thanks to you I am safe now. I am in your debt. May I ask your name...?
Roy: I am Roy, son of Eliwood, Marquess Pherae.
Guinevere: It's a pleasure... As for myself...
Elen: Your Highness... Are you certain you should?
Guinevere: Yes, Elen. It is fine. My name is Guinivere.
Roy: Guinivere?! That's the name of the Princess of Bern!
Guinevere: Yes, that is I.
Merlinus: What?! This was a trap, wasn't it?!
Roy: Merlinus, hold.
Merlinus: I beg your pardon, Lord Roy, but...
Roy: I wish to hear her out. Give her a chance, will you?
Merlinus: Tsk. As you will...

Roy: Are you truly Princess Guinivere from Bern?
Guinevere: Yes, truly. I cannot blame you for doubting me, however.
Roy: Maybe you are the princess of Bern, and maybe you aren't. I can see from your actions and dress that you are at least of high status. If you are indeed Princess Guinivere, however, there's one thing I don't understand. Elen told me you intended to meet the lords of the Lycian League.
Guinevere: Yes, that is correct.
Roy: Why, if you are the sister of the King of Bern?
Guinevere: I want to find a peaceful way to end the war. If I can speak to the Lycian council, I'm certain we can come to a solution.
Roy: Your brother instigated this war. Is it in your power to stop it?
Guinevere: At the very least, I wish to do everything I can. No, I MUST do everything I can.
Roy: ...I see. For the time being, come with us to meet the Lycian League armies. I want to see what Lord Hector thinks of this affair.
Guinevere: You will allow me to accompany you?
Roy: Yes. If there is any possibility to avoid further bloodshed, we must try. It matters not how small the chance.
Guinevere: Thank you! I truly am in your debt.@Opening 
After defeating Arcard, Roy moved east deep into the frozen lands of Ilia.

Soon, they entered the thick forests that characterize Ilia’s central land. However, a general of Bern, Bishop Martel, was waiting for them with an ancient spell that was said to have been lost centuries ago…

@Intro 
Soldier: Bishop Martel! We have brought Lady Niime, as you asked.
Martel: Good. Let her pass.
Niime: What do you need from me?
Martel: Are you Niime, the Hermit on the Mountain?
Niime: So, some have begun calling me that, have they? Then I must be that Niime.
Martel: I hear that you are capable of using the ancient spell book that we found in this castle.
Niime: I should be able to. I’ve been studying the dark arts and ancient magic for decades now.
Martel: I understand that this spell can change the weather around the caster...
Niime: It wouldn’t be entirely improbable.
Martel: Then I order you. Use the spell book and create rainfall. Make it rain so that the rivers will overflow and push back the advancing Etrurian Army.
Niime: Well, I can try, but I frankly can’t guarantee that it will work. Also, powerful spells like these can only be cast once. Are you sure?
Martel: Silence! All you must do is follow my commands. You were the one who came to us and said you wished to join our forces. Then make yourself useful.
Niime: ......
 
Roy: Princess Guinevere... We are getting closer to Bern.
Guinevere: ...Yes.
Roy: Since we are getting closer, we are clashing with soldiers from Bern more and more often. It will not be long before we engage in full combat with Bern.
Guinevere: ......
Roy: I wish to ask you something before we do.
Guinevere: What is that?
Roy: I have been hearing rumors...that King Zephiel rose to the throne because he murdered the former king.
Guinevere: !
Roy: I couldn’t believe it. You tried to stop him even by casting away your nationality. If King Zephiel is such a mad individual as the rumors say, then why did you try so hard to find a peaceful way to end the war?
Guinevere: ......
Roy: Princess Guinevere, I accepted the Fire Emblem not to use it in battle, but to try and find a use for it to end this war peacefully.
Guinevere: Roy...
Roy: Therefore, please tell me the truth about the rumors...
Guinevere: I...I’m sorry. Please...give me some time.
Roy: Princess!
Merlinus: ...What is the matter? Princess Guinevere was running off...
Roy: ...No, it’s nothing. Did you need something?
Merlinus: Yes, I have gathered some more information. We may have some trouble with this battle. A powerful dark magician by the name of Niime resides in the enemy ranks.
Roy: Dark magician... A Druid, probably.
Merlinus: She is apparently extremely learned in ancient sorcery. She has much more knowledge than any scholar could dream of.
Roy: But we can’t pull back now.
Merlinus: No, but we can always be careful.
Roy: I know. We must be wary.

@Battle 
Martel: Is the spell ready? Niime!
Niime: ...I’m warning you for the last time. I really have no idea what will happen...
Martel: Just shut up and cast the spell!
Niime: Sigh... All right...
 
Merlinus: Wh-What is going on...?
Roy: An enemy spellcaster? Everyone, watch out!
 
Martel: What... What is this!? The rivers... The rivers have frozen over!
Niime: My, my... Now isn’t this a surprise...
Martel: ! You! You did this on purpose!
Niime: What are you talking about... I warned you that I couldn’t predict what would happen.
Martel: Quiet! Someone! Throw her into the dungeon!
Soldier: Yes, sir.
Niime: Sigh...
 
Roy: What...happened?
Merlinus: Master Roy, we have a report. The rivers have apparently frozen over.
Roy: What?
Merlinus: The ice is think enough for knights on horseback to cross them safely.
Roy: Oh... Well, good, we can advance more quickly now. Charge toward the castle gate!

@Boss 
Martel: Blast! How could you have traversed through this snow… Curse that useless hag!

Martel: No… I, one of the most intelligent of the generals…can die…?

@End 
Niime: Ah, finally I’ve been released from the clutches of Bern.
Roy: You are?
Niime: My name is Niime. I live in the mountains and study arcane magic.
Roy: You say you were released. Did you not join Bern out of your own will?
Niime: Well, I did, but it was only a guise. Bern’s army had something that I wanted to study.
Roy: What is that?
Niime: The Dragons.
Roy: !
Niime: Well, well, that got you interested, didn’t it?
Roy: The Dragons you speak of... They are not the wyverns that Bern’s Dragon Knights ride, but the strange troops that are mixed in with Bern’s soldiers...
Niime: Exactly. Those are the Dragons that were supposedly defeated in the Scouring.
Roy: Why do you know this...?
Niime: I thought that this war was just another skirmish at first. But then I began to see strange...evil things among Bern’s troops, so I decided to investigate.
Roy: Were you able to find out anything?
Niime: The Dragons are indeed shrouded in mystery. I looked through many ancient books and scrolls, but I could only decipher so many of them. But...
Roy: ...But?
Niime: I have come to believe that Bern has resurrected the Dark Dragon.
Roy: Dark Dragon... That is the leader of the Dragons that Hartmut defeated.
Niime: Right. Dragons are a much more advanced species then us humans. They have much greater vitality and intellect than us. However, there was one thing that the Dragons lagged far behind the humans in. The Dragons’ reproductive system was much less efficient than that of the humans. But even then, the Dark Dragon...it had the power to create more Dragons. That is what I learned from my research.
Roy: It can make more Dragons...
Niime: The Dark Dragon can create more of its kind. That would explain where Bern has been getting all of its Dragons.
Roy: That is possible.
Niime: Now, that being said... I want to learn more about the Dragons. Let me accompany your travels. I wield Dark Magic...I’m sure I can be of some assistance.
Roy: Of course. We want to learn about the Dragons as well. It may be dangerous, but it that’s okay with you, you’re welcome to join us.
@Opening 
The Lycia Alliance Army took in Elffin as a tactician. Following his advice, Roy led his forces south toward the isle of Caldonia. Caldonia was one of the three largest islands of the Western Isles. The other two were Fibernia and Dia. Located on Caldonia was Castle Edina. Here, men from all over the Isles were rounded up and locked in prison cells to be sent to Mt. Eburacum, the Mines of Death. When Roy arrived at Castle Edina, the situation was already looking grim...

@Intro 
Villager 1: Hurry! This way!
Villager 2: A-Are you sure about this? If we get caught we're--
Villager 1: Don't be stupid! If we stay, we'll be worked to death! You're just going to lie down and take that? Don't you have a family or something back home?
Villager 2: Yeah...
Villager 1: There are people coming to help us from the northeast. We just have to make it there in one piece!

Arcard: More people escaped?! Where were the gaurds?!
Robarts: They were unconscious. Someone drugged their food...
Arcard: ...Then there must be a traitor amongst us. Morgan! Pursue and eliminate the escaped workers.
Morgan: Yes, Lord Arcard.
Arcard: I will return to Jutes. Don't let them escape. Send more hands to the mines as well. I can't afford to lose more workers!

Roy: Elffin, is that castle to the southwest our target?
Elffin: Yes, that is Castle Edina. The people kidnapped on the Isles are first sent there. They are then sent to Eburacum and forced to work in the mines. As it happens, today is the weekly shipment of captives to the mines. It will be difficult to rescue them once they've been sent off.
Roy: Then you're saying we have to rescue them now!
Elffin: Yes. I already had some spies infiltrate the castle and help the people escape.
Roy: What will the captives do once they're out?
Elffin: I told them to send the captives to the northeast. In other words, our present location.
Roy: Then we must rescue those people before sieging the castle.

@Battle 
Woman: Geese... You're really leaving?
Geese: The lord of that castle killed my mates. I won't let their deaths be unavenged.
Woman: You mean that crew that was always with you...
Geese: Yeah... They were taken to the mines and told that they would be given work. But they were all worked like slaves until they... died.
Woman: ......
Geese: Maybe they weren't the brightest bunch, but they were good people... And they were killed... just like that...!!
Woman: Do you intend to avenge them on your own?
Geese: Is there something wrong with that?
Woman: No... But I thought you were going to go back to your merchant business.
Geese: Yeah, well, I've got bigger problems now... Once my mates get their revenge, and once the war subsides, maybe I will.
Woman: ...We won't forget you, Geese. You and your crew risked your lives to get us food and supplies. If you ever need anything, we'll be here.
Geese: Maybe I'll take you up on that, if I'm still alive. ...Thanks.

Bartre: They're imprisoned in that castle, you say?
Resistance: That's right.
Bartre: Then we've no time to lose. Let's begin this daring prison break, shall we?
Resistance: ...I'm sorry to ask for your help like this. I know you're looking for your daughter.
Bartre: Don't be absurd! Consider it payment for your hospitality. I won't let some blood-sucking lord take advantage of his people! I'm Bartre the Brave, and I'll smash these puny insects!

Soldier: Sir Morgan, the reinforcements are ready!
Morgan: Good. Deploy them immediately. Spread them around the castle to defend us on all sides.

@End 
Roy: Even though we've saved the people at Castle Edina, there are others still suffering in the mines.
Elffin: That is correct. To liberate the Western Isles, we must take the capital.
Roy: Then our next destination is Jutes. ...Elffin, may I ask you something?
Elffin: Of course, Lord Roy.
Roy: Pardon me if I am mistaken, but are you of high Etrurian nobility?
Elffin: What?!! ...What makes you think that?
Roy: I can't quite explain it, but... The way you talk sounds very educated. In Ostia, I learned how to study people and size them up. Am I right?
Elffin: What would you do if you are?
Roy: Oh. Nothing in particular. I'm sure you have a good reason to hide your identity. You can tell me when you feel the time is right.
Elffin: ......
Roy: Let's head for Jutes! To save the Isles and defeat the true enemy of the people!

Villager 1: Hey, you with the mustache!
Merlinus: What?! Who are you?
Villager 1: Here, give this to General Roy. Thanks to him, we can see our families again.
Villager 2: We of the Western Isles always pay our debts of gratitude!
Villager 1: Tell him thanks.
Villager 2: We're all grateful from the bottom of our hearts!

@Recruit-Talk 
%Roy,Geese
Geese: Yeah? What? You got something to say to me?
Roy: I want to ask you why you're fighting against the soldiers.
Geese: Who wants to know?
Roy: Roy, leader of the Lycian Army. We're here on behalf of Etruria...
Geese: You're with Etruria?! Then you're the enemy. Get ready to die!
Roy: Slow down! We're fighting the castle's troops too.
Geese: And yet Etruria sent you? I don't understand.
Roy: I don't either. We were sent by Etruria to get rid of bandits here, but something's strange.
Geese: ...You say you're fighting the castle's troops. I'm for hire, if you'll take me.
Roy: What?
Geese: I'm a seafaring man, so I know both the land and sea around the Isles. You look a bit lost, so I could be a good guide for you.
Roy: That would help, but why?
Geese: I want to help with your mission. To be honest, I'm a pirate, so I'm probably the type you were sent to get rid of. But I only go after the rich. They have more than their fair share anyway.
Roy: Well then, if you'll join us, we're pleased to have you. We don't know this area at all, so it's been difficult thus far.
Geese: Sounds like we have a deal! Leave it to me!
Geese: ...This is it, lads. Can you taste it? You'll have your vengeance. And after you do, I might just tag along with this Roy fellow for a while...

%Roy,Bartre 
Bartre: Are you with Etruria?!
Roy: Y-yes...
Bartre: We fight for the people suffering under your tyranny! En garde!
Roy: W-wait! We're on your side!
Bartre: You aren't with the castle?
Roy: We're trying to capture it, actually.
Bartre: Oh! Sorry then.
Roy: I am Roy, leader of the Lycian Army.
Bartre: Lycia? You've come a long way...
Roy: We were sent by Etruria to rid the Isles of the bandits.
Bartre: What's that?! So you are with Etruria!
Roy: Please calm yourself! We share the same goal. We want to bring peace to the Isles.
Bartre: …You may end up against Etrurian nobility.
Roy: ...Our mission is to find and eliminate wrongdoers on the Isles. Social status matters not.
Bartre: You, my friend, are a man of conviction! Very well! I think I'll join your little army!
Roy: You'll help us? Thank you!

%Fir,Bartre
Fir: Father? What are you doing here?
Bartre: Fir! I've been looking for you.
Fir: Father, I've already made up my mind. I want to become a great master of the sword like mother...
Bartre: That is good. I don't intend to drag you home. In fact, I want to help you in your journey.
Fir: Help me?
Bartre: I know well the hardships one faces in a journey of self-improvement. I can help you out of a bind if things get rough.
Fir: But Father, if you keep helping me, my training is meaningless.
Bartre: Nonsense. With your old man around, we can practice sparring any time! Do you refuse your father's love?!
Fir: No! It's nothing like that, but...
Bartre: It's settled then. But first we capture the castle.
Fir: Sigh... I guess I should tell Roy that we have another member...

@Boss 
Morgan: What are you doing?! Hurry and kill the ones who escaped! Wait, you're not one of my men... Wh-who are you?!

Morgan: The resistance force has been eliminated in this area... Who... are you people...?

@Visit 
Villager: Are you the guys helping us out? Then please, take this. I grabbed it as I escaped from the castle. I hope everyone else made it out... @Opening 
After defeating the Djute tribe, Roy moved toward Bulgar, the largest city in
Sacae.

As a center of commerce between Etruria, Bern, and Ilia, Bulgar has had a
history of being free city without a ruler.  However, with Bern's invasion,
Advisor Roartz now had control of the city under Bern's protection.

Roy approached Bulgar to liberate it and to gain some useful information on
invading Bern.

@Intro 
Roartz: They’re here...! And so quickly... Could they not have given me the time to at least set up a defense!?
Kel: We will try to stop the enemy from progressing any further. You can retreat to the palace and fortify your defenses there.
Roartz: ...Can you hold them back?
Kel: We must at least try.
Roartz: If you do not know whether you can win or not...
Kel: Then what would you do? Flee? Tell me, just where do you think you can hide?
Roartz: ......
Kel: General Brunnya has given me orders to protect you. I will do so with my life. But you must not be afraid to fight, either!
Roartz: ... A-All right... Then I shall fortify the inside and leave the outside to you.
Soldier: ...That is the highest advisor of the Etrurian court? Why should we fight for a coward like him?
Kel: Don’t say that. General Brunnya didn’t willingly tell us to protect him. She had no choice because Etruria joined forces with Bern. ...Therefore, we must fulfill our duties as warriors.
Soldier: ......
Kel: I have also gotten hold of information that the allies of the Silver Wolf are lurking around here. Keep your guard.
Soldier: Yes, sir.
 
Roy: Princess Guinevere.
Guinevere: ...We fight again today.
Roy: Yes... I am sorry that I cannot find the time to talk with you at leisure.
Guinevere: Please, do not worry. ...My brother started this in the first place.
Roy: Princess...
Guinevere: ...Yes?
Roy: May I ask the reason why Bern’s former king tried to murder King Zephiel?
Guinevere: ...Zephiel and I were born from different mothers. I am actually only his half-sister.
Roy: I heard that Zephiel’s mother was the queen of Etruria.
Guinevere: Yes. It was an arranged marriage to strengthen the tie between Bern and Etruria. However, our father already had a woman he loved at that time. That was my mother.
Roy: ......
Guinevere: The marriage between our father and Zephiel’s mother was forced. Therefore, our father didn’t love Zephiel’s mother, and always thought badly of Zephiel.
Roy: Then is that why the former king and King Zephiel had a bad relationship?
Guinevere: No... Even then, Zephiel was always trying his best to gain our father’s affection. He excelled in his studies and military training, and he was always trying hard. He grew to become a proud heir to Bern’s throne.
Roy: Then why did the king try to...
Soldier from off-screen: Master Roy! We are ready for the attack!
Roy: All right, I’ll be there in a minute! Princess Guinevere, I’m sorry, but...
Guinevere: No, it is all right. Please be careful.

@Battle 
Niime: Well, well... So it has begun.
Dayan: So it seems.
Man: Just when we thought Bern had finished invading, now we have to deal with Etruria. Sigh...
Dayan: ......
Niime: Small wonder. This is a large trading city. Any army would want control of it. Well, then...
Man: H-Hey, wait, where are you going?
Niime: I’m going to watch the fight. Let’s see how worthy that Roy is.
Man: What, now? But...
Niime: Don’t you worry about me. Everything will be fine.
Man: What? Hey, wait! You’re leaving, too?
 
Kel: The reinforcements should be arriving soon... I want you to open the front gate to let the reinforcements in when they arrive.
Soldier: Yes, sir.
 
Soldier: All right, they should be here soon... Open the gate!
 
Kel: Tell the troops to start attacking the guerilla forces hiding in the houses.
Soldier: Yes, sir.

@Boss 
Kel: I am Kel. Behold my blade…as I swing it for the last time.

Kel: As a swordsman…this…is inevitable.

@End 
Niime: Hm. You’re not too bad, are you?
Roy: Wh-Who are you!?
Soldier: What the!? Hey! I said you couldn’t come in. Master Roy is very busy.
Roy: What’s the matter?
Soldier: Well, Master Roy, she kept pestering me that she wanted to see you. But you were busy, so I was trying to drive her away.
Niime: Listen to me first. Then you can decide whether you want to get rid of me or not. I think I have information that you might be interested in.
Roy: ...What is that?
Niime: It’s about the humans who change form into beasts.
Roy: ...I want to speak with her in private. Can you leave the room?
Soldier: Yes, sir.
Niime: Well, well, that got you interested, didn’t it?
Roy: Those beasts you speak of...
Niime: Right. Dragons.
Roy: Dragons... They are not the wyverns that Bern’s Dragon Knights ride, but the strange troops that are mixed in with Bern’s soldiers...
Niime: Exactly. Those are the Dragons that were supposedly defeated in the Scouring.
Roy: ...Who are you?
Niime: I am Niime, a scholar of ancient Dark Magic. Some call me the Hermit on the Mountain. This war...at first, I thought it was just another skirmish, so I didn’t pay heed of it. But now...I can feel evil among Bern’s troops, so I’m investigating.
Roy: Were you able to find out anything?
Niime: The Dragons are indeed shrouded in mystery. I looked through many ancient books and scrolls, but I could only decipher so many of them. But...
Roy: ...But?
Niime: I have come to believe that Bern has resurrected the Dark Dragon.
Roy: Dark Dragon... That is the leader of the Dragons that Hartmut defeated.
Niime: Right. Dragons are a much more advanced species then us humans. They have much greater vitality and intellect than us. However, there was one thing that the Dragons lagged far behind the humans in. The Dragons’ reproductive system was much less efficient than that of the humans. But even then, the Dark Dragon...it had the power to create more Dragons. That is what I learned from my research.
Roy: It can make more Dragons...
Niime: The Dark Dragon can create more of its kind. That would explain where Bern has been getting all of its Dragons.
Roy: That is possible.
Niime: Now, that being said... I want to learn more about the Dragons. Let me accompany your travels. I wield Dark Magic...I’m sure I can be of some assistance.
Roy: Of course. We want to learn about the Dragons as well. It may be dangerous, but it that’s okay with you, you’re welcome to join us.
@Intro 
Roy: You’re the Dark Priestess... No, the Dark Dragon.
Idunn: ...Why do you hinder my path?
Roy: What...?
Idunn: I have been commanded to lead this world. I shall make the world a better place. Why do you stand in my way?
Roy: ...You’re wrong. You were only told that the world would become a better place. The person who ordered you is already dead. So stop! You no longer have any reason to fight!
Idunn: ......
Roy: You... No, we... We have no reason to fight.
Idunn: ...A long time ago... I have a feeling that I heard those same words. Soft words, like a warm breeze... But that was long ago... I have been asleep for too long. In the darkness, I was dreaming... An empty dream, white, colorless... But now I am awake. His Majesty willed me so.
Roy: Majesty... Zephiel!
Idunn: I have woken. I am no longer who I used to be. I now clearly understand what I must do.
Roy: ......
Idunn: I must lead this world... No matter how many days or nights pass, I must. I must...
Roy: You insist on fighting us?
Idunn: If you stand in my path...
Roy: Such strong...will...
Idunn: His Majesty wishes it to be. And I was woken to answer his Majesty’s calls.
 
Alen: I will protect Master Roy with my life!

Lance: Master Roy, Lord Eliwood... I shall show you my gratitude now!

Marcus: Master Roy, please be careful.

Wolt: No matter what happens, I will protect Master Roy...

Bors: I must fight a worthy battle as an Ostian knight!

Elen: Saint Elimine... Give us strength!

Dieck: Whoo... Now there’s something you don’t see every day!

Wade: This is it! The great battle I’ve been waiting for!

Lot: We must be wary...

Shanna: All right! Chaaaaarge!

Lugh: ...I won’t lose. I can defend us all!

Chad: I have friends I can trust. There’s no way I could lose now!

Clarine: This is the end! We mustn’t lose now!

Rutger: ...It begins.

Saul: Well, well... Let’s go, I suppose.

Dorothy: Can we win...? No, we have to win!

Sue: Is this the end? Or is it the beginning...

Zelot: Now, Ilia will know peace...

Trec: Sigh... Give me a break...

Noah: Yeah, we’ll be fine.

Astolfo: This could be dangerous... Well, I’ve been in enough dangerous situations already.

Lilina: Father... Watch over us.

Wendy: You’ll be fine, Wendy... Just trust in yourself.

Barth: We cannot afford to make a mistake this time.

Ogier: I know I’ve become strong... Now’s the time to show it!

Fir: I will win. I will win!

Sin: ...We’ve finally come this far.

Geese: I hope this’ll be the last battle.

Gonzalez: I’m not afraid! This time I’m not afraid!

Klein: The long battle is about to end.

Thea: I...will not lose!

Echidna: This is the end... Finally, it’ll end...

Larum: It’s...huge...

Elffin: Let there be peace in your dying heart...

Bartre: Aaaaaarrrr! My blood boils!

Raigh: This is the Dark Dragon...! Such immense power...! Yes...!

Cath: Well, let’s go then, shall we?

Percival: If we take our time...we can win.

Melady: I will not lose... For the troops back in Bern... ...For Gale...

Cecilia: Roy, concentrate.

Sophia: I can sense...a sad heart...

Igrene: Now...peace shall come again...

Garret: A truly powerful enemy! Haven’t met one in years!

Fa: ...Do we have to fight...sniff...

Hugh: Whoa! We gotta fight that thing!?

Zeiss: I’ll focus all my strength into this one thrust!

Niime: This is it! Yes! This is the power that I have been searching for!

Juno: The time has come...

Dayan: This is the Dark Dragon...

Yoder: Finally, the battle between Dragons and men will end at last...

Karel: So, let’s see the power of the Dragon.

Roy: I won’t give up! I have the sword of Hartmut, who pitied you and did not kill you! Everyone, leave the final blow to me!

@Boss 
Idunn: I...I... Gah... I...alone... Dark... Alone... in... darkness...

@End 
Roy: What’s happening... The temple is starting to collapse! Everyone! Hurry outside!
Merlinus: Master Roy! Are you all right!?
Roy: Yes... But the temple is gone.
Merlinus: It is over a thousand years old, and a lot of energy was released in the battles that we just fought. Probably the building couldn’t withstand it.
Roy: I see...
Merlinus: Well, Master Roy, this is the end.
Roy: No, it’s not over yet. This is just the beginning. We have to help the land and the people recover from the war. We have much work to do. The real battle is just starting!

Fa: Ah!
Roy: What’s happening... The temple is starting to collapse! Everyone! Hurry outside!
Fa: Roy...
Roy: I know. Leave the rest to me. Now go!
Merlinus: Master Roy! Are you all right!?
Roy: Yes... But the temple is gone.
Merlinus: It is over a thousand years old, and a lot of energy was released in the battles that we just fought. Probably the building couldn’t withstand it.
Roy: I see...
Merlinus: So, times are changing again. And... Who is that you are carrying on your back?
Roy: Her? Oh, right. Merlinus, I need to ask you something...
@Opening
After rescuing Guinevere and Cecilia, Roy headed towards the Nabata Desert, following Sophia’s lead. According to her, the village of Arcadia was located in an oasis hidden in the desert.

However, Arcadia was already under attack by Bern. Roy suspected their aim to be the Dragons that were said to inhabit the village.

Although the Lycia Alliance Army moved as quickly as they could towards Arcadia, a vicious sandstorm stood in their way.

@Intro 
Igrene: Hurry, Fa! There’s a place to hide if you follow this path. Can you make it there?
Fa: But Fa’s tired!
Igrene: Don’t be stubborn. Now go, or else Bern’s soldiers might find us.
Fa: What about Sophia?
Igrene: I don’t know... Maybe she was caught by Bern’s troops.
Fa: If we get caught by Bern, then can we see the outside world?
Igrene: Fa, no. The elders said that we mustn’t communicate with the outside.
Fa: Aww... Please?
Igrene: No. ...But I wonder how Bern found out about our village... Perhaps it has something to do with the ominous energy that Sophia detected from the soldiers...
Fa: What’s wrong?
Igrene: ! I shouldn’t be thinking about such matters now. Fa! Over here, hurry!
Fa: ...Fa wants to see the outside world, too.

Randy: Zeiss! Hasn’t General Narshen arrived yet?
Zeiss: A band of mercenaries and some Dragons have arrived as reinforcements, but General Narshen’s group hasn’t arrived yet.
Randy: What is he thinking? He must know that it’s impossible to conquer the village with a small army like this...
Zeiss: ......
Randy: Anyway, we must inform the king about the Dragons living here. Zeiss, I want you to go to Aquleia and report to King Zephiel.
Zeiss: What shall I say?
Randy: Dragons do indeed inhabit this village. According to a captive, there are also signs of ‘Divine Dragons,’ the most powerful even among Dragons.
Zeiss: Yes, sir.
Randy: Make it quick.

Roy: Wow... This is some sandstorm.
Sophia: Yes... This sandstorm...has always protected our village from intruders...
Roy: It’s going to be a pain trying to look for a village in this mess. I can’t see three meters ahead... So in which direction should we be moving?
Sophia: Yes... Head to the northeast... But...
Roy: But?
Sophia: There may be things hidden in the sand...blown around by the sandstorm... Please be careful where you step...

@Battle 
Rose: Maggie, my dear, did we not see someone head towards the middle of the desert?
Maggie: Yes, Rose, you are most correct.
Rose: Then, Maggie, it must be true that there is a hidden village around here.
Maggie: Bless my soul, Rose, I believe you are correct.
Rose: But, my dear Maggie, we don’t want to get lost in the sandstorm, do we?
Maggie: Of course not, Rose. Then we wouldn’t be able to find our way home.
Rose: Well then, Maggie, do you think that we should pass up the hidden village?
Maggie: My dear Rose, you forget that there are rumors of vast treasures hidden in that village.
Rose: Well, we certainly don’t want to miss that, do we, Maggie?
Maggie: Of course not, Rose. We can make a lot more money through that than by mugging travelers.
Rose: But we don’t want to get lost, either, do we, Maggie?
Maggie: My dear Rose, I have an idea. We may follow the people whom we saw heading into the desert earlier.
Rose: That’s a wonderful idea, Maggie. And once we reach the village, we can thank them by mashing their heads in.
Maggie: Of course, my dear Rose.
Rose: Well then, Maggie, shall we be off?
Maggie: Why certainly, my dear Rose.

Roy: The sandstorm...it stopped.
Merlinus: This is our chance, Master Roy! We can see the village clearly now!
Roy: But so can the enemy. We have to hurry!

Sophia: Something…is glittering in the sand… Oh… A beautiful ring…

@Boss 
Rose: Bless my soul, Maggie… It hurts, does it not…?

Maggie: Hmm… My dear Rose, maybe we were wrong…

Randy: My sword is invincible. Now choose your death. By the blade…or by its light?

Randy: I am glad…that I could meet one as strong as you…before my death.

@End 
Roy: That was tough...but we won. Sophia, where are the inhabitants of the village? ...What’s wrong?
Sophia: ...The entrance to the temple...
Roy: This door... It looks like it was forced open. What lies inside this temple?
Sophia: A spell book... We call it...the Divine Weapon...
Roy: Divine Weapon!? There was one here, too? ...Then that must be what Bern was after! In that case, we might be too late...!
Sophia: ...The Divine Weapon is still here...
Roy: Really? How can you tell?
Sophia: It is there... I can feel it...
Roy: All right. Let’s go! We may still be able to stop Bern!

Elder of Arcadia: Who are you? How did you enter?
Roy: My name is Roy. I came with Sophia to protect this village.
Elder: With Sophia...? Then it was you who drove off Bern’s soldiers? Oh... Please forgive my impudence. I am the Elder of Arcadia.
Roy: Elder... Then are you the Dragon?
Elder: Dragon... They once called me that. But that is a story of a time long since past.
Roy: ......
Elder: Let me see... The only real Dragon we have is Fa right here.
Fa: Hi...
Roy: This little girl is a Dragon?
Elder: Yes, although she is far from her mature form.
Roy: Elder, do you know anything about the Dragons in Bern?
Elder: What! There are Dragons in Bern?
Roy: Yes, we have seen them.
Elder: Why...? Dragons do not exist anywhere except here.
Igrene: Elder, if I may.
Elder: What is it, Igrene?
Igrene: Sophia said that she could detect evil energy coming from Bern’s troops. That may have something to do with the Dragons Master Roy says he saw in Bern’s army.
Elder: Perhaps... But I am too old to detect such energy now.
Roy: Energy? What is that?
Elder: Sophia is half Dragon, half human. That gives her the ability to detect the pulses emitted from other Dragons. But because she can’t detect them clearly, she only said that she felt a force...twisted and unnatural.
Igrene: I think that we should look into it. Elder, if you would allow it, I would like to join Master Roy and look at Bern’s Dragons myself.
Elder: I really do not want to deal with matters of the outside... But this is a time of emergency. Well then, Roy, will you take her?
Roy: Certainly.
Igrene: I am Igrene, the Guardian of Nabata. I have confidence in my skills with the bow. I believe I may be of some help in battle.
Roy: Thank you.
Fa: Fa’s going, too!
Elder: What are you saying? Of course you may not. There is no telling what could happen if your existence were exposed to the world!
Fa: ......
Roy: Well then, let’s go.
Igrene: Yes.
Fa: ...Fine... Fa will just follow them anyway!
@Opening 
After Roy captured Aquleia, other Etrurian powers gradually began to change their views and express their discontent for the Revolutionaries. Driven away from their palace, Roartz and Arcard fled to Ilia, which was still under Bern’s control.

Ilia, also known as the Frozen Highlands, was a harsh land with short summers and long winters. With little arable land, the nation’s main source of income was to send out mercenary knights to fight for pay.

Etruria joined force with the Lycia Alliance Army to form a joint force under the name of the Etrurian Army, with Roy as its commander. Their first mission was to enter Ilia and finish off the remaining Revlutionaries. Once that was done, they would proceed to launch direct attacks on Bern. With the powerful backing of the Elimine Church, Roy had the populace on his side.

However, Roy had to face the freezing cold of Ilia, as well as Bern’s elite troops under General Murdock, the leader of the Three Dragon Lords. In addition, many of the powerful Ilian mercenary knights had submitted to Bern’s side.

As a start, Roy headed for Castle Raemy, located on the Ilian border.

@Intro 
Murdock: So, Narshen has fallen.
Galle: Yes. Lord Murdock, did we really not have to aid him?
Murdock: Those were the king’s orders. Besides, the Bern army has no use for a man who cannot clean up his own messes.
Roartz: Lord Murdock... What will become of us?
Murdock: Lord Arcard, I will entrust this land of Raemy to you. Lord Roartz, I will have you take the land of Edessa. You must make preparations to retaliate.
Arcard: What!? Raemy is right on the border! The enemy will arrive in no time!
Murdock: True. But this position also allows us to easily launch attacks on Etruria. Make sure this castle does not fall.
Roartz: Edessa... It is deep in the wastelands of Ilia...
Murdock: That would give you plenty of time to prepare your forces, would it not?
Arcard: Could you not...take back Etruria for us?
Murdock: We could. However, when we do, Etruria will go under Bern’s rule.
Roartz: No! That won’t do.
Murdock: Then I suggest that you find a way to deal with the situation yourselves. Excuse us.
Roartz: ......
 
Galle: My lord, were we supposed to dispose of those two like that?
Murdock: Don’t worry. Bern’s code says that every individual must be able to deal with the consequences of his own actions. ...The enemy leader, was his name Roy?
Galle: Yes.
Murdock: I must admit, he has done a superb job of rebuilding the Alliance Army after we crushed it so... If I have the chance, I would like to have the honor of fighting him one on one.
 
Yoder: We are soon approaching the Etrurian border.
Roy: Bishop Yoder, thank you for everything. Thanks to the Church, we were able to proceed thus far with ease.
Yoder: Please. If you had not captured Aquleia, we would be suffering from persecution under Bern. This is nothing in comparison to what you did for us.
Roy: I am glad that I could be of use to you.
Yoder: Now... May I ask you a very important favor?
Roy: Yes, anything that I am capable of.
Yoder: If you find out anything else about the Dragons...
Roy: I understand. If I discover anything new, I will report to you immediately.
Yoder: Thank you! ...Ah, yes, I must tell you something else. This land of Raemy... At a certain time of the day, the sea level drops, exposing a sand bar that can be crossed.
Roy: A sand bar?
Yoder: Yes. It will take long to traverse all the way around the bay to attack the castle. However, should you be able to cross the sand bar, you may be able to save some time.
Roy: I see.
Yoder: Still, please be careful. Rushing is not always the best tactic to win a battle.
Roy: Yes. Thank you for your advice.
Yoder: Of course. Then, may Saint Elimine bless the Etrurian Army!

@Battle 
Soldier: Lord Arcard! A path has appeared in the sea!
Arcard: What!?
Soldier: Well... According to the locals, the tide pulls at this time of day...
Arcard: What!? You didn’t know about this!?
Soldier: But, sir, we are not from these parts! We are not familiar with the geography of this land!
Arcard: Damn! Charge! Prevent the enemy from crossing that path!
 
Merlinus: Master Roy, we have a report.
Roy: Did the path in the sea appear?
Merlinus: Yes. Bishop Yoder was right.
Roy: Did the enemy know about this?
Merlinus: Actually, they seem to be a panicked state.
Roy: All right, then let’s not miss this chance! Charge!

@Boss 
Arcard: Wh-Why! Why is this happening to me!?

Arcard: I...am an Etrurian...noble! I must not...die...here... Guh!

%Klein,Arcard
Arcard: Klein! You would betray me?
Klein: You are the one who betrayed Etruria, Lord Arcard!

%Douglas,Arcard
Arcard: D-Douglas! You had turned to the enemy...!?

@End 
Merlinus: Lord Arcard... What a pathetic ending for one who became so powerful.
Roy: Well, last year, I didn’t think we would be fighting in Sacae, either. Fate can turn out in the most unlikely ways... And that might be true for Bern as well.
Merlinus: ...? Master Roy, what is it that you are holding in your hand?
Roy: Oh, this? This is the Fire Emblem.
Merlinus: Oh... So this tiny gem is...
Roy: Princess Guinevere wanted me to keep it. It seemed...difficult for her to give it to me... She must have been truly hoping to end the war peacefully until now...where this is no hope left...
Merlinus: Hmm... Trust between siblings? It didn’t seem likely on the outside.
Roy: Why not?
Merlinus: The enemy is Zephiel, king of Bern! It is said that he murdered his own father, so I didn’t think that he would be moved by mere family relations...
Roy: What!? He killed his own father?
Merlinus: Didn’t you know, Master Roy? Zephiel took the throne because the former king had died. But because the former king’s death was so sudden, there are many rumors going around.
Roy: And one of them is...
Merlinus: ...That King Zephiel assassinated him.
Roy: ...Does Princess Guinevere know about this?
Merlinus: She must know something about it, if not all.@Opening
Respecting Hector's dying request, Roy made his way west. Intent on reaching Lilina, Roy keeps a steady pace toward Ostia. On his way there, Roy passes through the territory of Laus, governed by Lord Erik. At a glance, Laus is a peaceful territory with vast meadows and clear streams. Beneath this beauty, however, lies treachery and great skullduggery...

@Intro 
Erik: Ah, welcome, Genral Narcian.
Narcian: Lord Erik. I don't think I've yet praised your wisdom in joining Bern.
Erik: Thank you, sire. Ancient vows and traditions are nothing more than a burden anyway.
Narcian: You, my friend, are wise beyond your years. Now, where is that gift you promised me? She does not seem to be here.
Erik: Ah, yes! She is in her quarters. She is exceedingly naive, you see. When I told her she could meet her brother, she cooperated without question. You there! Bring her here!

Clarine: What is this hall? Klein? Where are you, Brother?
Narcian: Welcome, Lady Clarine.
Clarine: Who might you be?
Narcian: I am Narcian, one of Bern's three Wyvern Generals. My lovely little lass, I think you will enjoy my company more than your brother's... Hm hm hm...
Clarine: Heh... Ha ha ha!
Narcian: What? Why do you laugh?
Clarine: You compare yourself to my brother? You think too highly of yourself. Your garb, your hair - even your speech... All a painfully obvious guise to hide your true lowborn face.
Narcian: Lowborn?! Me?! You would compare ME to a peasant?!
Clarine: Oh, heavens no. I would sooner compare you to a filthy, disease-ridden mutt!
Narcian: Y-you vermin!! I'll see you suffer!
Soldier: General Narcian, we just received word that Castle Araphen was retaken by the enemy!
Narcian: What?! Impossible! What of Slater?
Soldier: Err... His whereabouts are unknown, sire. The enemy is reported to be Roy, son of Marquess Pherae.
Clarine: ......
Narcian: Accursed interruptions! Lord Erik, lock the girl in a cell. I will give her the pleasure of my company when I return! You, blockade the highroad from Ostia. This Roy might just pass by. I want his head!
Soldier: Yes, sire!

@Battle 
Clarine: They will pay dearly for this treatment...
Unknown person: ...Hey.
Clarine: Who's there?!
Rutger: I'm a mercenary hired by Lord Erik. He wants to see you.
Clarine: I will not. I refuse to meet with such churlish people.
Rutger: ......Just get over here.
Clarine: Let go! You will regret this! Do you have any idea who I am?!
Rutger: .....
Clarine: Let go, I say!

Clarine: Let go! Let go, I say!
Rutger: Keep it down. You won't be able to make a clean escape making all that noise.
Clarine: Escape?! Then you're...
Rutger: I prepared a horse for you out back under a tree. Take it and go, while everyone's distracted.
Clarine: .......Why are you helping me?
Rutger: I despise Bern with all my soul.
Clarine: With all your soul?
Rutger: ...Never mind. Forget it.
Clarine: Saying that only piques my curiosity further.
Rutger: Time is short. Hurry!
Clarine: .....

Clarine: I've never met such a boorish man! This is a battlefield! A proper gentleman would escort a lady to her mansion! Well, it's hardly of concern now. Sigh, I only came here to see my brother, and now look at the mess I'm in... What am I to do now?

Pirate: Heh... Foolish nobility. Always involved in some petty dispute. 'Course, you'll hear no complaints from us. Turmoil's how we make a living. Heh heh heh...

Erik: Ah, there you are!
Rutger: What do you want?
Erik: We need some backup. Take some troops and prepare for battle.
Rutger: ......
Erik: Are you deaf? Go and fight!
Rutger: I heard you. I'll leave when I'm ready.

Erik: Tsk. Not the amiable sort, is he? If his sword arm is as skilled as the rumors say, though, then it's no matter.

@Recruit-Talk 
%Roy,Clarine
Clarine: Pardon me, you there!
Roy: Me?
Clarine: Do you see anyone else? You are the leader of this little group, are you not?
Roy: I am.
Clarine: Most convenient. Very well then. You will protect me.
Roy: Excuse me?
Clarine: Hard of hearing? I said that you are going to protect me from harm.
Merlinus: Mind your mouth, young lady!
Clarine: Away with you, peasant. I was not addressing you.
Merlinus: What?! Who do you think-
Roy: Calm yourself, Merlinus... It looks like she's being pursued by the castle's soldiers. That's why she wants us to guard her. Right?
Clarine: Um, yes! That is correct...
Merlinus: Im...impudent child! We can't simply accept any useless girl into our army!
Clarine: You may call me Lady Clarine, peasant. And I am not useless! I can use staves to heal wounded allies.
Roy: So you'll help us fight?
Clarine: ...If that's what it takes! I suppose I can't simply demand protection without any kind of payment.
Roy: Thanks, we appreciate it! Our enemy is Bern, so we need everyone we can get. I'm Roy. Pleased to meet you, Lady Clarine.
Clarine: The pleasure is all- Ahem! Let's focus on the issue at hand.

%Clarine,Rutger
Clarine: Oh! It's you...
Rutger: What? You're still here?
Clarine: "Still here?" You abandoned me in the middle of a battlefield! How can you have the nerve to say that?! I could have been killed!
Rutger: I guess you're lucky you're still alive then. Did you want something or can I go now?
Clarine: Just a moment! I shan't allow you to abandon me twice. A gentleman must take responsibility for his actions.
Rutger: Responsibility? For what? I saved you from that twisted sadist.
Clarine: If a gentleman rescues a lady, he must also escort her to her mansion! In what fairy tale does some barf of a man abandon his princess?
Rutger: ...What in the world are you on about?
Clarine: Besides, you said you "despise Bern with all your soul." If you ask me, you'd be better of joining us. We'll be fighting Bern, you know.
Rutger: What? Wait! Is that true? Is that army you're in really going to challenge Bern?
Clarine: Yes... Our leader, Floyd or whatever his name is, told me himself.
Rutger: ......Fine.
Clarine: Yes?
Rutger: I'll join your army. Satisfied?
Clarine: Ah... I suppose.
Clarine: Wait! My protection is more important than fighting Bern! Come back!

@Visit 
Village: If you don't have a thief, you won't be able to open chests and doors. Only a thief can use lockpicks. But I have a key called the door key, which can open any door if anyone uses it. You should thank me. 

Village: Everyone here is your ally. We're not about to abandon the land in which we were born in and change sides. Please take this treasured sword. It was given to us generations ago. A gift from the king. 

Village: I can't believe this war is happening... Under Bern's leadership, we will definitely wither. Here is something that will help you stand longer. Think carefully before using it. 

House: The mountain bandits and pirates attack towns. Once they destroy a town, there won't be anything left. Save the towns!

House: In the Laus army, there are mounted soldiers who use bows. This is the nomad tribe. Everyone wants their military might nowadays...

House: Do you know the main point of combat? There are weapons known as Buster weapons, which defy the weapon triangle!

@Boss 
Erik: You fools are bound down by moldy, old tradition! Allow me to teach you the way of the world!

Erik: Ha...ha ha... Fools... There is no future for...those...who oppose...absolute power...

@End 
Merlinus: Lord Roy! The remaining soldiers from Laus are retreating.
Roy: Thank you. Tell everyone to get some rest.
Merlinus: Yes, milord.

Guinevere: Roy... Are you all right?
Roy: I never would have thought Lord Erik would turn on Lycia. I thought the Lycian League's bond was stronger than this. Cowardly Bern! Underhanded tactics!
Guinevere: ...I apologize.
Roy: Oh... I'm sorry. I wasn't even thinking about you.
Guinevere: No... You are right.
Roy: We'll now proceed west towards Ostia. But now we know that even the other marquesses can't be trusted. With Lord Hector gone, I fear there may be no peaceful end for this war. Princess, do you plan on returning to Bern? If you need anything-
Guinevere: No, please allow me to stay, if it would not be a burden.
Roy: You, a burden? Never! But why do you wish to stay?
Guinevere: My brother is wrong. He is pulling the dragons into a human war. If he thinks this is how he can free the world, I must stop him.
Roy: Free the world?
Guinevere: Yes, he has always been obsessed with "liberating the world." He said that's the purpose of this war.
Roy: What does that mean?
Guinevere: I do not know... My brother is not so power-hungry that he would attempt to conquer the world. I'm sure he believes strongly in what he's done to Elibe. Regardless, that doesn't excuse the violence he has caused...
Roy: Princess Guinivere...@Opening 
After meeting Niime, the "Hermit on the Mountain," the mysteries of Bern's
Dragons were slowly beginning to unfold.

With more unknowns still needing verification, Roy directed his troops toward a
large manor on the outskirts of Bulgar.

There, Advisor Roartz of Etruria was preparing his defenses against Roy...

@Intro 
Roartz: They let the enemy inside!? Damn! If I am to go to Hell, then that Roy shall be going down with me!
Soldier: Lord Roartz! The remnants of the Djute clan are saying that they will come to our aid once they have securely hidden the Miurgre.
Roartz: Miurgre? Ah, one of the Divine Weapons. Good, then we must hold our own until then!
 
Roy: This is Roartz’s manor...
Niime: I understand that this mansion holds methods of attacking through little cracks in the framework. You must not think you that are safe just because your back is to the wall.
Roy: Do you know much about this place?
Niime: Well, I am at least slightly known to know more than most people. The rumor about this manor is something I picked up back in the city.
Roy: ...Do you know what the Dark Dragon looks like?
Niime: Well, I can’t say I’m absolutely sure about that. But I would love to see it with my own eyes.
Roy: I was thinking... Maybe the Dark Dragon is in human form as well.
Niime: Perhaps. Maybe all the Dragons are in human form now. I’ve also heard stories of Dragons in human form living with people.
Roy: Arcadia...
Niime: Hm? Did you say something?
Roy: No, nothing.
Niime: I don’t know anything specific, but I’ve read in an ancient scroll that Dragons started taking human form only after the Ending Winter.
Roy: The Ending Winter...
Niime: You’ve heard about it, right?
Roy: Yes, only in legend. ‘At the Winder of Ends, the laws of nature were turned upside down. Day became night, and summer became winter.'
Niime: That’s it. These scrolls are so old and damaged so I couldn’t decipher all of them, but one thing is clear. The Ending Winter was a disaster powerful enough to bend and twist the planet.
Roy: What caused it?
Niime: Who knows... Popular belief says that the laws of nature were twisted when the Dragons unleashed vast amounts of magical power, but I have no idea about what really happened. But it does seem certain that Dragons started taking human form after the Ending Winter. It must be more than coincidence.
Roy: Yes, I agree.
Niime: Well, either way, the truth lies in Bern.

@Battle 
Dayan: Good, the mansion is in chaos. I shall fight those Bern troops alone, to the death!

Thoril: Those pigs from Etruria…! I shall avenge my Djute brothers right here, right now!

@Recruit-Talk 
%Roy,Dayan 
Dayan: Are you the Etrurian General leading this group?
Roy: Yes. And you are?
Dayan: I am Dayan.
Roy: Dayan...? I’ve heard that name somewhere...
Dayan: I must first thank you. My clan was always fighting against Bern and the clans that submitted to them. We were forced to reside to guerilla warfare instead of going up against them honorably, face to face. However, now that you have attacked Bern, the tables are beginning to tip in our favor.
Roy: I see. I am glad that I could help.
Dayan: But I want to ask you one thing. Once this battle is over, do you intend to withdraw your troops right away?
Roy: After this battle?
Dayan: Yes. Sacae belongs to us Sacaeans. If authoritarian rule by Bern is only to be replaced by Etrurian rule, then we would have to fight you next.
Roy: Right after this battle... That would not be possible. We must have Sacae as a base to launch direct attacks on Bern.
Dayan: What... Directly into Bern’s lands?
Roy: Even if we could drive off Bern now, it would only be a matter of time until they strike back at us. We must destroy their roots. Right?
Dayan: Yes, you are right. I see...in that case, I shall aid you.
Roy: That would help us tremendously.
Dayan: But once Bern is defeated, you must withdraw your troops from Sacae. Is that all right with you?
Roy: Of course. You have my word.

@Boss 
Roartz: S-Someone! Come and defend me! It is all over if I am hurt!

Roartz: W-Wait... Be my servant! It is still not too late... I shall...forgive your crime of turning your blade...toward me... Guh...!

%Douglas,Roartz
Roartz: Douglas... Hmph! After all that you said, you too are following those with power!
Douglas: Perhaps it may seem that way from the outside. But there is no hesitation in my heart now.
Roartz: Silence! I have just about had enough of you. Die here!

@End 
Roy: Next is Bern...
Merlinus: Master Roy! We have reports that the remainders of the Djute clan are hiding in some ruins near here.
Roy: Ruins?
Merlinus: Yes. And we also have a captive who says that a bow used during the Scouring is hidden there.
Roy: What? Then...
Merlinus: It’s highly possible that it is a Divine Weapon.
Roy: We must get to those ruins! Let’s go!
 
Roy: Merlinus, I need you to send this letter to Bishop Yoder in Etruria.
Merlinus: A letter? May I ask what it says?
Roy: It’s the story we heard from Niime about the Dragons.
Merlinus: Oh? What did you discuss with her about the Dragons?
Roy: It’ll be long if I tell you. I haven’t sealed the letter yet, so you can look through it if you want.
Merlinus: All right. Let me see...
Guinevere: ...Roy.
Roy: Princess, is something wrong?
Guinevere: ...We enter Bern now.
Roy: Yes. We will attack Bern very soon. So...may I ask the rest of the story now...?
Guinevere: ...Yes. That is why I came to you.
Roy: King Zephiel was an outstanding pupil is his studies, he was skilled in warcraft... He grew to be the perfect heir for the king.
Guinevere: That is correct.
Roy: But still, the former king did not look kindly at him.
Guinevere: In fact... Our father began to hate Zephiel because he grew to become such a brilliant and worthy youth.
Roy: What...is that supposed to mean...?
Guinevere: Our father was a man of ordinary skill and intellect. Therefore, Zephiel’s outstanding skill made our father cold towards him.
Roy: Jealousy...?
Guinevere: And then one day, our father told Zephiel that ‘the next heir to Bern would be Guinevere’s husband.'
Roy: What! That’s awful!
Guinevere: But Zephiel was very patient. He said that he did not mind even if he could not gain the throne. But the people around us, who were looking forward to Zephiel’s ability to be a good king, would not allow anyone else to be the heir. Pressured by the public, our father lost his patience at last, and...
Roy: Decided to kill King Zephiel...?
Guinevere: At a banquet, our father gave Zephiel a poisoned drink from his own hands. And that was the first and last cup that Zephiel took from our father. After returning to his room, Zephiel started to get sick. For ten days and nights, Zephiel lingered between life and death. But Murdock, Zephiel’s teacher and loyal general, saved his life.
Roy: ...The former king never did anything after that?
Guinevere: No... But I have heard that he had plans to get rid of Murdock and Zephiel’s mother as traitors. He was scheming to murder them all along with Zephiel. After hearing that, Zephiel made believe that he was dead. Our father then checked the coffin to confirm Zephiel’s death. At that moment, Zephiel rose up from the coffin and...with his sword...
Roy: ......
Guinevere: I was but a child then, so naturally I could not have understood what was going on. All I knew is that after our father died, Zephiel never smiled again. Until then, he was strict at times, but he was always a kind and loving brother to me. So...
Roy: Princess...
Guinevere: So I... At the bottom of my heart, I trust that Zephiel can change, that he can become that loving brother again. I...had to take action.
Roy: I...see...
Guinevere: ...But now, my brother is in a place where my words cannot reach him. Roy, please... Please stop him. Please stop him from inflicting pain and suffering to the people of Bern...and the rest of Elibe.
Roy: Even if it may resolve to the blade?
Guinevere: ...I have made my resolve when I entrusted this task to you.
Roy: I see. You have my word and loyalty, Princess Guinevere. I swear to the Fire Emblem that I will stop King Zephiel!
@Opening 
After defeating Sigune, Roy headed for Edessa, located in the southeast of Ilia. Castle Edessa, owned by Zelot, leader of the Ilian mercenary knights, once served as the headquarters of the Pegasus Knight squads as well. However, with Zelot gone, Bern saw its chance and attacked the castle, seizing it and forcing the mercenaries and Pegasus Knights into submission.

Castle Edessa was Murdock’s headquarters, but since Murdock had returned to Bern, Roartz was put in charge. Alarmed by the Etrurian Army’s speed in advancing on to Edessa, Roartz hurriedly contacted the various Ilian knight groups asking them for aid. However, their replies were not promising.

@Intro 
Roartz: Well? Have we got enough troops?
Soldier: Well... We are requesting aid from Ilia’s knights, but all of them except those that have been given direct orders from Lord Murdock are hesitant to help us.
Roartz: Damn! How could this happen... ...Ah, we had captured Zelot’s wife and his family. How about Zelot’s group? Have they responded?
Soldier: No... They have been traveling all over the continent as mercenary knights, so we do not even know their exact location.
Roartz: Damn...
Soldier: Ever since Sigune’s group was defeated, all of Ilia’s militia have been reluctant to fight the Etrurian Army.
Roartz: Blast! Everyone, everyone is such a coward! They would have me, top advisor to the Etrurian Court, die in a place like this!?
 
Old Woman: Cough, cough...
Juno: Are you all right? Here, take my shawl.
Old Woman: N-No, then you would be cold...
Juno: It’s all right, I’m used to the cold. It’s far better than flying through the blizzards on a pegasus.
Old Woman: ...Thank you. Cough, cough...
Girl: Lady Juno... What’s going to happen to us?
Juno: ...I don’t know. But we must have hope. Perhaps the enemy might leave, or perhaps Zelot might return. We must not give up hope.
Girl: ...Where is Lord Zelot now?
Juno: In his last letter he said that he was joining the Lycia Alliance Army, but after that... Well, he could be closer that we think he is.
Girl: I hope you’re right.
 
Guinevere: ...We fight again today.
Roy: Yes. When we take this castle, we can use it as a base to launch attacks on Bern.
Guinevere: ...Yes.
Roy: Princess... May I ask the reason why Bern’s former king tried to murder King Zephiel?
Guinevere: ...Zephiel and I were born from different mothers. I am actually only his half-sister.
Roy: I heard that Zephiel’s mother was the queen of Etruria.
Guinevere: Yes. It was an arranged marriage to strengthen the tie between Bern and Etruria. However, our father already had a woman he loved at that time. She is my mother.
Roy: ...
Guinevere: The marriage between our father and Zephiel’s mother was forced. Therefore, our father didn’t love Zephiel’s mother, and always thought badly of Zephiel. 
Roy: Then is that why the former king and King Zephiel had a bad relationship? 
Guinevere: No... Even then, Zephiel was always trying his best to gain our father’s affection. He excelled in his studies and military training, and he was always trying hard. He grew to become a proud heir to Bern’s throne. 
Roy: Then why did the king try to... 
Soldier: Master Roy! We are ready for the attack! 
Roy: All right, I’ll be there in a minute! Princess Guinevere, I’m sorry, but... 
Guinevere: No, it is all right. Please be careful.

@Battle 
Roy: The blizzard is picking up… This might take longer than we expected. We should head for Bern as soon as we take the castle.

@Recruit-Talk 
%Zelot,Juno
Zelot: Juno!
Juno: Zelot!
Zelot: Are you all right? You’re not hurt? They didn’t do anything terrible to you?
Juno: Oh, Zelot, I am no child. I am the ex-flightleader of the Pegasus Knight Fleet, you know.
Zelot: That’s true, but...
Juno: I’m all right. I’m not hurt or anything.
Zelot: Good...
Juno: Why are you in the Etrurian Army? I thought you were with the Lycia Alliance.
Zelot: Well, it’s a long story... Anyway, this is the Etrurian Army only by name. It is actually made up of troops from the Lycia Alliance Army.
Juno: Oh... I see.
Zelot: I’m sorry. I couldn’t be at the castle when I was needed the most...
Juno: There’s no point in dwelling on the past.
Zelot: But you had to go out and fight...
Juno: Oh? Don’t you like my flightleader outfit?
Zelot: Of course I do! But...
Juno: Then there’s no problem. You’ll be seeing a lot of it from now on.
Zelot: What! Do you mean...
Juno: Yes. I will fight alongside you as well.
Zelot: No! No no no. You retired long ago. So just leave the fighting to us...
Juno: Even after I retired, I had to fight anyway. Zelot, there is no safe place in the world any more.
Zelot: Well...
Juno: So I will fight, so I can help bring a time of peace all the more quickly.

%Thea,Juno
Thea: Juno!
Juno: Thea... What are you doing here?
Thea: It’s a long story... But anyway, I’m with the Etrurian Army now. I heard Edessa had fallen to Bern, and I was worried, but... I’m glad to see you’re all right.
Juno: ...I thought you were originally fighting for the people who were fighting against the Etrurian Army. You didn’t...
Thea: No! I didn’t go against the Ilian Mercenary Code. I fulfilled my duties as a mercenary and then joined the Etrurian Army.
Juno: Of course... You’re a good and diligent girl. You wouldn’t do something like that. I’m sorry.
Thea: No, it’s all right... And, um... What are you wearing?
Juno: This? Why, this is my military outfit, as you very well know. Well, what do you think? Don’t you think I can still go on as flightleader?
Thea: But... I thought you retired.
Juno: I can’t be saying that in this time of emergency! On my own, all I could do was rescue the people in the castle, but if I joined you, I could fight against Bern as well.
Thea: So you’re going to fight alongside us?
Juno: Yes.
Thea: Yes! I never thought I could fight alongside you again.
Juno: Don’t get cocky now. I haven’t gotten too rusty yet either!

%Shanna,Juno
Shanna: Big Sister Juno!
Juno: Shanna? Why are you here?
Shanna: I’ve been in the Etrurian Army. I was surprised when I heard that Edessa got taken by Bern, but I knew you’d be okay!
Juno: Oh? Why do you say that?
Shanna: You were captain of the Fleet! There’s no way Bern could defeat you.
Juno: Thank you. Well, you’ll be sorry to hear that I was captured.
Shanna: Well, that’s...
Juno: But I won’t stay defeated by Bern for long. On my own, all I could do was rescue the people in the castle, but if I joined you, I could fight against Bern as well.
Shanna: Then are you going to fight with us?
Juno: Yes.
Shanna: Really? Yes!
Juno: Does that make you so excited?
Shanna: Yes! I became a Pegasus Knight because I wanted to be like you. Fighting alongside you is like a dream.
Juno: My, my... Well, you always did tend to go overboard with things...

@End 
Roy: Next is Bern...
Merlinus: Master Roy! Part of Bern’s army is hiding in the ruins on the outskirts of Edessa!
Roy: Ruins?
Merlinus: Yes. Apparently, in them lies a spear that was used during the Scouring.
Roy: What? That spear...
Merlinus: It is most probably a Divine Weapon.
Roy: We must hurry to the ruins!
 
Roy: Princess Guinevere, we will attack Bern now. So may I ask...
Guinevere: ...The rest of the story.
Roy: King Zephiel was an outstanding pupil is his studies, he was skilled in warcraft... He grew to be the perfect heir for the king.
Guinevere: That is correct.
Roy: But still, the former king did not look kindly at him.
Guinevere: In fact... Our father began to hate Zephiel because he grew to become such a brilliant and worthy youth.
Roy: What...is that supposed to mean...?
Guinevere: Our father was a man of ordinary skill and intellect. Therefore, Zephiel’s outstanding skill made our father cold towards him.
Roy: Jealousy...?
Guinevere: And then one day, our father told Zephiel that ‘the next heir to Bern would be Guinevere’s husband.'
Roy: What! That’s awful!
Guinevere: But Zephiel was very patient. He said that he did not mind even if he could not gain the throne. But the people around us, who were looking forward to Zephiel’s ability to be a good king, would not allow anyone else to be the heir. Pressured by the public, our father lost his patience at last, and...
Roy: Decided to kill King Zephiel...?
Guinevere: At a banquet, our father gave Zephiel a poisoned drink from his own hands. And that was the first and last cup that Zephiel took from our father. After returning to his room, Zephiel started to get sick. For ten days and nights, Zephiel lingered between life and death. But Murdock, Zephiel’s teacher and loyal general, saved his life.
Roy: ...The former king never did anything after that?
Guinevere: No... But I have heard that he had plans to get rid of Murdock and Zephiel’s mother as traitors. He was scheming to murder them all along with Zephiel. After hearing that, Zephiel made believe that he was dead. Our father then checked the coffin to confirm Zephiel’s death. At that moment, Zephiel rose up from the coffin and...with his sword...
Roy: ......
Guinevere: I was but a child then, so naturally I could not have understood what was going on. All I knew is that after our father died, Zephiel never smiled again. Until then, he was strict at times, but he was always a kind and loving brother to me. So...
Roy: Princess...
Guinevere: So I... At the bottom of my heart, I trust that Zephiel can change, that he can become that loving brother again. I...had to take action.
Roy: I...see...
Guinevere: ...But now, my brother is in a place where my words cannot reach him. Roy, please... Please stop him. Please stop him from inflicting pain and suffering to the people of Bern...and the rest of Elibe.
Roy: Even if it may resolve to the blade?
Guinevere: ...I have made my resolve when I entrusted this task to you.
Roy: I see. You have my word and loyalty, Princess Guinevere. I swear to the Fire Emblem that I will stop King Zephiel!
 
Girl: Excuse me...
Guinevere: Yes...?
Girl: Are you the one who saved us?
Guinevere: No, I am...
Girl: Thank you! Thanks to you, we can now stand here safely. Please accept this token of our gratitude.
Old Woman: Thank you!
 
Guinevere: ...... I shall hand this to Roy...
@Opening 
After rescuing Fa, Roy headed for Aquleia.

The capitol of Etruria, Aquleia is also the largest, most prosperous city on
the continent.

Preparing for the Lycia Alliance Army's attack, the Coup d'etat army
concentrated their forces in Aquleia.

Originally they had planned on using the garrison of the city for defense, but
since the Elimine Church had turned to Roy's side, the Coup d'etat army had no
choice but to retreat to the castle and take post there instead for fear that
the Church may have encouraged the city denizens to protest.

The Elimine Church was started by "Saint" Elimine, one of the Eight Heroes.
This religious organization had many followers, primarily in Bern and Etruria.

Roy had gained the Church's support in attacking Aquleia.  However, Narcian and
his elite troops were waiting for Roy inside the castle.

@Intro 
Narcian: Damn...! The Lycia Alliance Army still stands! How could they come this far...!
Soldier: G-General Narcian... The leader of the Three Dragon Lords, Lord Murdock is here!
Narcian: What!? H-Hurry! Send someone out to escort him here! Make sure he gets the utmost attention...
Soldier: He already is here...
Murdock: Enough. Step aside.
Narcian: L-Lord Murdock... What a pleasant surprise! What brings you all the way from Ilia?
Murdock: Narcian, I believe you owe me an explanation.
Narcian: I-I’m sorry, my lord, I’m not sure I understand...
Murdock: Princess Guinevere has escaped, again. Flaer, your lieutenant, has failed at Western Isles. Also, you have neglected your mission of capturing the hidden village in Nabata, as given by the king himself! Narcian! I want explanations. Now!
Narcian: Y-Yes... Well, you see, my lord, there have been many complications, and...
Murdock: ...Enough. I have orders from the king. You are to be demoted from Dragon Lord status.
Narcian: What!?
Murdock: His Majesty wants Galle to take your place.
Narcian: M-My lord! Please wait! One more chance, please! Just give me one more chance!
Murdock: ...The Lycia Alliance Army is approaching this palace. Stop them to show me your worth. If you succeed, I shall negotiate with the king.
Narcian: Lord Murdock...
Murdock: Narcian... Don’t fail the king...or me, again.
Narcian: Rubbish! Me, demoted!? And my replacement is that Galle...! Never! I will never allow that to happen! B-But what can I do... No...! My honor, my status... It’s all collapsing!
Soldier: General Narcian, the enemy is approaching...
Narcian: Shut up! I know that. ...Wait. The brother of that traitor, Melady, was here, wasn’t he... Ah! I can say that we failed because he was working with his sister to leak information to the enemy, and kill him off later! Hehehe...
Soldier: General Narcian... What are you thinking?
Narcian: Hm? Oh, do you know Melady’s younger brother?
Soldier: Do you mean Sir Zeiss?
Narcian: Right, Zeiss. Anyway, he’s suspected of leaking information to the Lycia Alliance Army. Capture him and bring him here.
Soldier: What? But Sir Zeiss would never do something like that...
Narcian: Shut up! All you must do is follow my orders! Now bring him here!
 
Arcard: T-The enemy is right at our doorstep!
Roartz: Oh...what must we do! If we get caught, we shall be prosecuted as the initiators of the coup d’etat...!
Douglas: ......
Roartz: ...Arcard! This is all your fault! If you had done your duty and gotten rid of the Lycia Alliance Army at Djuto...
Arcard: B-But Lord Roartz...! ...No! This is not the time to be arguing, my lord! We must escape!
Roartz: But escape to where...
Arcard: ...Let us turn to Bern! This was originally their plan...
Roartz: Y-Yes, of course! We have done what they asked of us. They would be sure to help us.
Douglas: ...May I ask what you intend to do with the king?
Roartz: Er... W-Well, I’m sure they wouldn’t harm the king. After all, King Zephiel’s mother was an Etrurian. Anyway, Douglas, you must escape as well...
Douglas: I refuse. I was originally fighting alongside you because King Mordred’s safety was at stake. I had no intention of going along with your plans.
Roartz: Hmph! Stubborn as always, I see. Suit yourself. Arcard, let us escape!
Arcard: Lord Roartz! Please wait...
Douglas: ...Dirty traitors! Fleeing at the last minute... It must have been easy for Bern to seduce them. I suppose I can leave those two to the Lycia Alliance Army... If Prince Mildain returns...Etruria will pull itself together again. And until then... I shall fight and prove my loyalty as the Great General of Etruria!
 
Yoder: Master Roy, this is the palace of Aquleia. According to the information we have gathered, the Revolutionaries have holed up inside.
Roy: Bishop Yoder, I thank you for your help. Thanks to the Elimine Church, we were able to avoid fighting in the city and killing innocent people.
Yoder: No, I must thank you. Our order was being persecuted by the Revolutionaies, so if you hadn’t come along to fight, we would have been driven out of the land a long time ago.
Roy: Persecuted? Why?
Yoder: Most likely because we were investigating into Bern’s Dragons. Saint Elimine, our founder, said this before she ascended to heaven: ‘Never allow the Dragons to be brought back to the world... It would spell death for many a people.’ Therefore, we are making our best efforts to find a way to send the Dragons back to the world in which they belong.
Roy: If the Revolutionaries had joined Bern, then they would naturally want to stop you...
Yoder: That’s right. Also, we found out this: The resurrection of the Dragons is somehow tied to the Fire Emblem, Bern’s greatest treasure. That was where I sent Saul and Dorothy to investigate.
Roy: I see.
Yoder: Master Roy, you must stop the Revolutionaries. And if you would allow me to give you further advice, I would suggest that you do not do any unnecessary killing. I am sure there are troops that had no choice but to join the Revolutionaries due to inside reasons.
Roy: Yes.
Yoder: May Saint Elimine bless you, Master Roy.

@Battle 
Galle: Zeiss. Where are you?
Zeiss: I’m here, Sir Galle. Is something wrong? Why did you summon me here...
Galle: There is no time to be explaining the details. Zeiss, you must hide.
Zeiss: ...What do you mean? The enemy is right in front of us!
Galle: Zeiss, listen to me. Just now, General Narcian gave an order to the entire army...to capture you.
Zeiss: What!? Does he think that I am betraying Bern?
Galle: He is trying to put the responsibility for all of his past failures on your shoulders. He is saying that you worked with Melady to leak information to the enemy.
Zeiss: With my sister? We don’t even know where she is.
Galle: Melady has apparently joined the Lycia Alliance Army with the Princess.
Zeiss: !! Melady turned to the enemy!? I don’t believe it...
Galle: Then get the story from her yourself. I want to go with you as well, but I have been told by Lord Murdock to observe the battle and report back to him. Zeiss, I want you escape when you see the chance and speak with Melady.
Zeiss: Sir Galle! I...
Galle: I do not intend on doing anything until we hear Melady’s story.
Zeiss: ......
 
Hugh: What the? The Etrurian nobles ran off? Wait a minute, then what happens to my payment? I haven’t been paid for this mission yet!
 
Cath: The treasures are calling me! So this is the palace of the richest family in Elibe... The treasure must be something indeed. Well, they took it all from us in the first place, so I guess I’ll only be taking it back!

@Recruit-Talk 
%Roy,Hugh 
Hugh: Hey, you! You’re the leader of the army that’s attacking the castle, right? Do you have a shortage in magicians?
Roy: ? Well, I guess we could always use more...
Hugh: Really? Great! You see, there’s a Mage willing to fight for you. You think you would want to hire him?
Roy: Where is he?
Hugh: Right in front of you!
Roy: ......
Hugh: Hey, don’t look at me like that! I’m pretty decent with my magic. You can hire me for 10000 gold.
Roy: 10000! That’s expensive...
Hugh: Come on! I need money for my grandma...
Roy: What? Is your grandmother sick or something?
Hugh: Er... R-Right! Something to that nature... Anyway, I need some cash. Come on, pal!
Roy: Well...
Roy: All right, if your grandmother’s sick, then I suppose you need money for medicine...
Hugh: You got that right! She’s really sick, you know. She’s always getting these really bad headaches around her back...
Roy: Huh? Headaches around her back?
Hugh: Um, y-you know what I mean, I was just giving an example of the pain... ...Okay, got the money. I’ll do my job well. You can count on me!
Roy: I’m sorry, but I can’t pay 10000 gold for just one person.
Hugh: What! ...W-Well, I could compensate with 8000...
Roy: ?...
Hugh: Come on, please?
Roy: Well...
Roy: I’m sorry, but...
Hugh: S-Still no good? Um...well, I guess 6000 gold would still do...
Roy: Er...
Hugh: Please. I really need the money...
Roy: Well...
Hugh: ...... All right, all right! I’m really getting desperate now... 5000! How’s that!
Hugh: Come on, I’m begging you! Please hire me!
Roy: Well...
Roy: ...I’m sorry.
Hugh: No... ...Please...I swear I’ll be really useful...
Roy: The money we have belongs to all of us. I have no right to use it on my own judgment.
Hugh: Argh! I give up! Fine! Have it your way. Just when I thought you were somebody... Ha! You’ve got some pretty nice beliefs, haven’t you, kid!

@Battle-Talk 
%Elffin,Douglas
Elffin: Douglas!
Douglas: Prince Mildain! You’ve returned! You seem so well now...thank goodness.
Elffin: It is all thanks to you. I am sorry I put you through this.
Douglas: You returned safely... That is more than enough praise.
Elffin: Douglas, I am currently working with the Lycia Alliance Army.
Douglas: Ah! Then everything will go smoothly as long as we can drive off Bern’s troops from the palace.
Elffin: What...are you going to do?
Douglas: The king is still in the enemy’s hands. If I turn against Bern now, the king would be in danger...
Elffin: ......
Douglas: But now that you have returned, I have no more regrets, even if I were to be defeated by the Lycia Alliance Army.
Elffin: Douglas...I apologize. You are doing this all for my father...
Douglas: My Prince, if my life were to be used for the true benefit of Etruria, then that would be my last wish.
Elffin: ......
Douglas: I am glad that I could see you alive before my death.
Elffin: You risked your life to protect me and let me escape to the Western Isles. I shall never forget that. ...Never.
Douglas: ...I still have false hope. I still think of trying to take you to see the king...
Elffin: ...Douglas, I will not give up hope. Roy...he just might be able to...

%Larum,Douglas
Larum: Father!
Douglas: Larum! What are you doing here?
Larum: I joined the Lycia Alliance Army with Prince Mildain...
Douglas: ! So the prince has returned! Now Etruria has hope...
Larum: Father...
Douglas: Larum... I’m sorry I put you through this. I had to send you off along to protect the prince.
Larum: No! That was what I wanted to do.
Douglas: ...But just when I thought I had saved you from a hard life, I had to send you out to be a dancer again.
Larum: ...You saved me from that terrible life with no food...no money... And you even raised me as your own daughter... From that time, I made up my mind that I would one day return the gift, that I would be of some use to you.
Douglas: Larum...
Larum: So I’m really...glad, now. I’m finally being useful to you...
Douglas: Larum, thank you. ...Please take care of the prince from now on as well.
Larum: What about you? You’re not coming with us?
Douglas: King Mordred is still in the hands of the enemy. If I turn to Lycia Alliance Army now, then the king’s life would be in danger.
Larum: ...But still...
Douglas: Now that the prince has returned safely, I have no regrets, even I am to be taken down by the Lycia Alliance Army.
Larum: ......
Douglas: Now go. If you are seen with me, you would be suspected of treachery. No matter where you are, you will always be my true daughter. Always.
Larum: Father...
Douglas: May your life be blessed with happiness...

%Cecilia,Douglas
Douglas: Cecilia.
Cecilia: Lord Douglas... Why is someone of your stature fighting for the Revolutionaries...?
Douglas: I am prioritizing the king’s safety. That is all.
Cecilia: But if this continues, Etruria will become a puppet state for Bern! There must be a nation for there to be a king. If the nation falls, so will its power. And in the end, all will be forgotten!
Douglas: If this nation is doomed to collapse...then so be it. But I will assure the king’s safety!
Cecilia: What...! We must fight for our people, for our nation! The Etrurian army is for the people. They are not the king’s private soldiers!
Douglas: ...It is a matter of opinion. Cecilia, you must follow your beliefs, as I must follow mine.

%Percival,Douglas
Percival: Lord Douglas!
Douglas: Percival... I see no more hesitation in your eyes now.
Percival: Lord Douglas, it is thanks to you. Because you saved Prince Mildain, I was able to return to being an honorable knight again.
Douglas: Good.
Percival: What are you going to do, Lord Douglas?
Douglas: The king is still in the hands of the enemy. If I turn to Lycia Alliance Army now, then the king’s life would be in danger.
Percival: ......
Douglas: Now that the prince has returned, I have no regrets, even if I am to be taken down by the Lycia Alliance Army.
Percival: I knew you would say that, my lord.
Douglas: Well, you have walked the same path as I. Please take care of the prince...and of Etruria.
Percival: Yes. I shall dedicate my life to them.

@Recruit-Talk 
%Melady,Zeiss
Zeiss: Melady!
Melady: Zeiss!? What are you doing here?
Zeiss: ...I’m being accused of betraying Bern.
Melady: Oh...! Is it...my fault...?
Zeiss: Sir Galle said that you had joined the enemy. But I couldn’t believe it until now, when I can see it with my own eyes! Why! Why did you betray Bern?
Melady: I never betrayed Bern. I just wanted to help Princess Guinevere.
Zeiss: So you threw away everything...your homeland, your family, even your lover...for the princess. For that...stubborn princess who betrayed her own brother!
Melady: Enough, Zeiss! I will not tolerate you insulting Princess Guinevere!
Zeiss: ......
Melady: It’s the princess, not the king, who is truly working for the good of Bern. Granted, I was angry when the princess left without consulting me at all. But now that I’m by her side, I understand more than ever...that she had not made a mistake.
Zeiss: ...Sir Galle was right.
Melady: ?
Zeiss: He said that he didn’t intend on doing anything until he heard your story.
Melady: Galle said that...
Zeiss: I don’t fully agree with you yet, but... I know I can trust you.
Melady: Zeiss! Then...?
Zeiss: If the Lycia Alliance Army’s leader would allow it, I want to go with you. I want to see the princess’ beliefs that moved you so.

@Boss 
Narcian: I am strong...I am wise...I am handsome...and I am right. Always! More than anybody!

Narcian: No…No…! I will not be defeated…! Not by you…worthless… Gaaaaaaahhhhh!

%Clarine,Narcian
Narcian: You...! You’re that girl that was...!
Clarine: ? Excuse me, have we met before?
Narcian: What! You have forgotten me, of all people!? That...must not be!

%Melady,Narcian
Narcian: You’re Princess Guinevere’s... Ha! So you betray your nation and turn to the enemy. Disgraceful!

%Zeiss,Narcian
Narcian: You...
Zeiss: General Narcian... No, Narcian! I heard everything from Sir Galle! Do you not...have any honor left in you at all!
Narcian: Galle...! Dammit, is he ever an eyesore! Well, it shall be fine... Once I get rid of you, everything will be shrouded in mystery...

%Cecilia,Narcian
Narcian: You’re... So, being defeated once wasn’t enough?
Cecilia: Zephiel was the one who defeated me. Not you.
Narcian: Then I shall show you my strength now!

%Percival,Narcian
Narcian: Well, if it isn’t General Percival, the traitor!
Percival: Joining you...was the biggest mistake of my life. And now, I shall repent for it...by defeating you!

@End 
Mordred: So it is you...who rescued us?
Roy: My name is Roy, leader of the Lycia Alliance Army.
Mordred: Hm...
Roy: ......
Mordred: ...I must ask you of something. The soldiers who have been working with Bern have taken over the Tower of the Saint.
Roy: The Tower of the Saint... That is where Saint Elimine’s altar lies.
Mordred: Yes... That is a national symbol of Etruria. Please, I ask you to recapture the tower.
Roy: I will do what I can.
Mordred: I am sorry. You may use anything in the tower that you find useful.
Roy: The king... He still mourns the prince’s death.
Merlinus: He must have been an easy target for Bern.
Roy: I want to help him...but how?
 
Elffin: Father...I am sorry. When the time comes, I will return...I promise.
 
Roy: Princess Guinevere, I must speak with you.
Guinevere: ...Is it that we must attack Bern as well after Etruria?
Roy: ! Did someone inform you?
Guinevere: No. ...But I knew that it would happen eventually.
Roy: ...We cannot leave Bern running around freely any longer. I know that it will be hard to see your nation invaded, but...
Guinevere: ...Roy, I will give this to you.
Roy: What is this?
Guinevere: It is Bern’s greatest treasure...the Fire Emblem.
Roy: What!?
Guinevere: In the south of Bern lies a temple called the Temple of Seals. In it lies the sword that our founder, Hartmut, used.
Roy: Is it...one of the Divine Weapons?
Guinevere: I believe so. It was a sword made to slay the Dark Dragon, the leader of the Dragons during the Scouring. However, it held power so immense that it was sealed away after the war. The Fire Emblem is the key to break its seal.
Roy: The key...
Guinevere: My brother...is trying to force the world into submission through power. That is not forgivable, no matter what the reason.
Roy: ......
Guinevere: To stop him, all we can do is defeat the Dragon at his side.
Roy: Princess Guinevere...
Guinevere: ...My name shall be stained in history, as the woman who betrayed her nation.
Roy: No...
Guinevere: I shall be hated all my life as a traitor. Roy, promise me one thing. When we invade Bern, promise me that you will not harm the civilians...
Roy: I promise. Please trust me.
Guinevere: ...Thank you.@Opening 
After saving the hidden village of Arcadia, Roy's army found their way out of
the desert, following Igrene's lead.

Now they turned toward Etruria to confront the Coup d'etat forces.  At this
point, a disturbing message came from the Elder of Arcadia.

Apparently, Fa, the little Dragon girl, had left Arcadia, following Roy.  If
she were to fall into the hands of the Coup d'etat forces or of Bern, who stood
behind them, it would be a disaster.

Bent on finding Fa, Roy moved his forces toward a small fort near the Etrurian
border.

@Intro 
Soldier: General Raeth, about the girl we captured earlier...
Raeth: Girl? That one that was scurrying around the outskirts of the castle? Are you still worrying yourself over that thing? Just throw her out.
Soldier: But sir, she was carrying this.
Raeth: ? Is this...a Dragon Stone?
Soldier: ...That is also what I thought, so I decided to report.
Raeth: Have you ever seen a Dragon Stone before?
Soldier: Yes, when we invaded Lycia. The Dragons were carrying them when they were in their human form.
Raeth: ...But it looks different from the ones that they have. Either way, it has to do with the Dragons. We should inform King Zephiel and follow his instructions. Make sure the girl doesn’t get away!
 
Douglas: Percival, don’t strain yourself here.
Percival: Lord Douglas, please do not worry about me. You must return to King Mordred’s side.
Douglas: Hmph, defeating the Lycia Alliance Army is not a task that requires the Knight General’s assistance. ...Roartz, that snake.
Percival: He is wary of my turning against him. He must be thinking that I would try and murder him in his sleep if I were stationed at Aquleia.
Douglas: That man, worrying about traitors? Ha! He shouldn’t be the one to talk. Why, he was first to betray his loyalty to the king! The bastard.
Percival: Well, Lord Douglas, it just goes to show that not many have such loyalty as you.
Douglas: Rubbish. Look at yourself.
Percival: ...I had no hesitations when Prince Mildain was alive. I never doubted my loyalty to him, or to the wellbeing of Etruria. This mission is to protect the king’s life... That...should be enough reason to fight...
Douglas: Do you hesitate now?
Percival: Yes, slightly. But it matters not. Nothing will change even if I do.
Douglas: I see... Percival, my speech from this point forth is merely to myself. Do not reply to it.
Percival: ......
Douglas: Etruria...will most certainly fall with the king before this war ends.
Percival: !! Lord Douglas!?
Douglas: Listen! No matter what happens, I will stay by the king’s side. But you, Percival, you are different. You are the one who will lead Etruria’s future. I cannot say when, but I firmly believe that Etruria will be blessed with prosperity once more. So Percival, you must leave Etruria and wait until that time comes.
Percival: Lord Douglas! What does...
Soldier: General Percival! We have spotted the Lycia Alliance Army up ahead! What are your orders, sir?
Douglas: Now go! I shall return to Aquleia.
Percival: ... Move forth! Pursue the Lycia Alliance Army!
 
Roy: Is that the castle where Fa was taken?
Merlinus: Yes. The locals have witnessed it.
Igrene: Roy, I apologize on behalf of my people for the inconvenience... I know we must hurry toward Aquleia.
Roy: No, please don’t worry about it. If she were to fall into the hands of Bern, that in itself would be a disaster.
Igrene: She should be safe as long as she remains in her human form and doesn’t show anyone her Dragon Stone.
Roy: Dragon Stone?
Igrene: Yes. When Dragons are in their human form, they seal their powers into crystals called Dragon Stones. It is said that it takes vast amounts of energy for Dragons to maintain their actual form in this world, so they typically remain in human form to minimize energy consumption.
Roy: Maybe the ‘human not human’ was in human form for the same reason.
Igrene: Most likely. It is also said that Dragons only started taking human after the Scouring ended.
Roy: Since the Scouring...?
Igrene: Yes...
Merlinus: Master Roy, the spy we sent to the castle has returned.
Roy: What did he find out?
Merlinus: He said that a large number of troops have been coming out of the castle. They seem to be fortifying their defenses.
Roy: Oh... Maybe they found out that Fa is a Dragon.
Merlinus: The border guards also seem to have noticed us...
Roy: We have to do this quickly.

@Battle 
Garret: This is gonna be a battlefield, too...
Bandit: What do we do, Boss?
Garret: The army’s gonna loot the villages anyway. I suppose we better ransack ’em while we can.
Bandit: Awright, Boss!
Garret: But make sure you don’t do any unnecessary killing, you got that?
Bandit: Got it...
Bandit: He’s too nice... Well, I guess we can make it the army’s fault.
 
Soldier: General Raeth, the reinforcements are ready!
Raeth: Good. Send them out.
Soldier: Yes, sir.

@Recruit-Talk 
%Lilina,Garret
Lilina: Wait!
Garret: What? Who are you?
Lilina: Why? Why do you attack the villages?
Garret: Eh? Who do you think you are?
Lilina: Tell me why you’re attacking the villages!
Garret: Why? ...Well, I could say that it’s your fault.
Lilina: Our fault...?
Garret: Yup. Because you idiots are causing wars like this, there are more and more people like me who have to steal to get food.
Lilina: We are fighting to help people like that.
Garret: Right, I’ve heard that enough times now. Look at reality, kid. They all say that they’re trying to help, but it’s all words and empty promises. Where’s the action? You got your head in the clouds, and you just can’t see what goes on on the ground. Get it? Now out of my way.
Lilina: ...No.
Garret: What!? Listen, I ain’t playing games with you. If you don’t get the hell out of my way...
Lilina: I won’t move. If you want to kill me, then you may do as you wish.
Garret: What...
Lilina: If I let you pass, I would just be another one of those people who you say are all talk and no action. I am telling the truth! We are fighting to help the people.
Garret: You... Hehe... I never thought I’d meet anyone so naive.
Lilina: Do you...laugh at us...?
Garret: But still, it’s nice to hear once in a while.
Lilina: Then...
Garret: All right, you win. I’ll stop looting. But you gotta let me fight with you guys. I gotta see with my own eyes that you’re gonna be true to your words.
Lilina: Thank you. If you fight alongside us, I’m sure you will understand.
Garret: Well, you certainly seem confident about that. I’m Garret. And you’re...
Lilina: Lilina.
Garret: Lilina? Well, then, I’m pleased to make your acquaintance, milady.

@Boss 
Raeth: Hmm… There must be a reason that you attack this castle… But what…?

Raeth: Gah…! That girl…she isn’t human, is she! Why…do you seek her…! To use her power…? …!

@End 
Merlinus: Master Roy, here she is!
Roy: You found her? All right, I’m coming!
Merlinus: Now, young lady, thank Master Roy.
Fa: ...Sniff, sniff...
Roy: It’s okay, Merlinus. ...Now, why did you follow us?
Fa: Fa just wanted to see the outside world...
Merlinus: What! For such a reason... Do you know how much trouble you have caused?
Fa: But...but... Fa’s never, ever allowed outside! The elders say that Fa has to be hidden... Fa is always all alone...all locked up in her room...
Roy: ......
Merlinus: Master Roy, what shall we do?
Roy: ...You’ve suffered a lot. But do you understand that you’ve worried the elders and caused a lot of inconvenience?
Fa: Fa’s sorry...
Roy: Really sorry?
Fa: Yes.
Roy: Well, then, you can come with us.
Fa: Really!?
Merlinus: Are you sure?
Roy: The enemy might already know about her. In that case, it’s better to have her where we can see her rather than letting her go off on her own back to Arcadia.
Fa: Yay!
Merlinus: Hush! Don’t get too excited.
Roy: But you mustn’t go off alone anymore. Promise?
Fa: Yes! Fa promises!
 
Soldier: General Percival, until further instructions are given, we will station ourselves in this castle and prepare for further attacks from the Revolutionaries.
Percival: Good.
Soldier: Here, we found this in the castle. Please take it. General Percival, please take care...of Etruria.
Percival: I know. Leave it to me.
Soldier: Yes!
@Opening 
After taking Saul, a priest of St.Elimine, and Dorothy, his bodyguard, into their ranks, Roy and company enter Thria, southeast of Ostia.

Thria is governed by Lord Orun, Hector's half brother. Orun's home castle seems a safe place to stay.

@Intro 
Cath: I snuck in here no problem, but there's nothing worth stealing! Hmm, looks like the north hall has all the valuables, but with that security- ...Are those footsteps?

Wagner: I trust everything is under control.
Soldier: Yes, milord, the soldiers are stationed all around the castle.
Wagner: Once they're inside and have their guard down, ambush them, just as with Lord Orun.
Soldier: Yes, milord.
Wagner: I want Princess Guinivere alive. The rest you can do with as you wish. Now go.

Wagner: Ha ha ha ha... First the Silver Wolf's granddaughter, and now Princess Guinivere... With so much to offer, Bern is certain to allow us to join them.

Cath: Hmmm... Now isn't that interesting.

Merlinus: Finally we can get a good night's rest, Lord Roy!
Roy: I wonder. That man said he was Lord Orun's advisor...
Merlinus: Wagner? Did something seem wrong with him?
Roy: He seemed to be in control of everything, as if he were the lord. And Lord Orun is so ill he can't even meet his guests? It all seems strange...
Merlinus: Now that you mention it, you have a point.

Saul: Excuse me, Lord Roy. There seem to be an awful lot of soldiers patrolling the castle.
Dorothy: I think they're spying on us.
Roy: What? No...
Dorothy: You noticed? Not bad...
Roy: Who's there?! Show yourself, intruder!
Cath: Hi!
Roy: And...who might you be?
Cath: Aw, I'm not one to talk about myself. I overheard that Wagner guy in the main hall though. He said they're gonna ambush you guys.
Roy: Lord Orun would never do that!
Cath: Oh yeah, he's dead, I think. Wagner assassinated him or something.
Roy: What?!
Cath: He wants to capture you all and turn you over to Bern.
Merlinus: Wait, Lord Roy! We can't trust her word so easily!
Cath: It's up to you whether you trust me or not. But don't say I didn't warn ya!
Guinevere: Roy... If what she says is true...
Roy: Let's spring his trap. We'll pretend like we're leaving. If Wagner is after us, he'll try to persuade us to stay.
Cath: If you wanna get out, go through the north hall! That'll bring you to the courtyard, so you'll be outta here in no time. Good luck!

Wagner: Oh, Lord Roy! Where are you off to? I will escort you back into the castle, so please follow me.
Roy: My apologies, Sir Wagner. I have just received a report of grave importance. Please excuse us, but we must take our leave now.
Wagner: Surely you would appreciate a warm bed after being in the field for so long. Lord Orun would be furious with me if you left without accepting our hospitality.
Roy: Don't worry, I shall tell Lord Orun myself that you are not to blame. I ought to at least offer him a greeting anyway. Please show us to his room.
Wagner: As I said, milord, Lord Orun is ill and cannot accept guests.
Roy: If we cannot see him, then we must be off.
Wagner: There's nothing I can offer to make you stay?
Roy: .....
Wagner: You leave me no choice then! Guards! Attack! Kill them all, but leave Princess Guinivere alive!
Roy: The girl was right! They were trying to ambush us!
Saul: Lord Roy! If we go this way, we'll be leaving our rear open to attack!
Roy: Then we'll seize the whole castle! Everyone, follow my lead!

@Battle 
Sue: All that noise... A battle? What is going on out there?

Cath: Hoo-boy, they're at each other's throats now. Time to pilfer what I can now that security's busy.

@Battle-Talk 
%Roy,Cath
Roy: Hey! You're...
Cath: Oops...
Roy: Wait!
Cath: Hey, cut it out! Let go of my arm! Ow! That hurts!
Roy: Oh, I'm sorry. But what are you doing here?
Cath: Well, uh, you know, this and that. I'm a busy girl. Ha ha ha...
Roy: Here? In a battlefield?
Cath: Oh yes, precisely BECAUSE this is a battlefield- Whoops, better watch my tongue...
Roy: Do you have some ulterior motive?
Cath: Uh...
Roy: Wait, is that why you told us the escape route?
Cath: Um, what? Sorry, I'm a little deaf in this ear!
Roy: Just who are you?
Cath: Don't worry about it! Forget you saw me. Gotta go. Cheers!
Roy: Hey, wait!

@Recruit-Talk 
%Roy,Sue
Sue: Who are you?
Roy: What's a girl doing in here?
Sue: You aren't with the castle?
Roy: My name is Roy. Who are you?
Sue: I am Sue. Are you the one causing that noise outside?
Roy: Noise?
Sue: The noise of battle.
Roy: Oh, I guess so. We're fighting the castle guards. It's a bit of a long story...
Sue: I see. Then I will join your side.
Roy: You will? Why?
Sue: The soldiers of this castle have done me wrong.
Roy: What? What do you mean...?
Sue: Please give me a bow. I will fight with you.

@Boss 
Wagner: Useless guards! But very well. Witness my magic...and bow down before its power!

Wagner: No... My plan...was flawless...

@End 
Roy: ...You're the granddaughter of one of the chieftains in Sacae?
Sue: My grandfather is the strongest warrior in Sacae. People call him the Silver Wolf.
Roy: The Silver Wolf... I've heard tales of him. But what are you doing in Lycia? This is a long way from Sacae.
Sue: Bern invaded Sacae, so the Kutolah clan decided to take up arms. Grandfather had the women and children escape to Lycia, but...
Roy: But?
Sue: There was a traitor. The Djute clan, who turned to Bern's side, ambushed us.
Roy: .....
Sue: We were all separated. I found my way into this land and I was rescued by Lord Orun. But Wagner, his advisor, assassinated Lord Orun and took over the castle.
Roy: And that's when you were captured...
Sue: Is your army fighting Bern?
Roy: Yes, we will fight for as long as it takes.
Sue: Then let me join you. Fighting Bern may lead me to Grandfather. Lord Orun deserves vengeance as well.
Roy: We're headed for Ostia, in the west. Sacae is in the east, the opposite direction. Is that all right?
Sue: I don't mind. No matter where we are, Mother Earth and Father Sky will watch over me.

Merlinus: Lord Roy! The spy I sent to Ostia has just returned. He says that Ostia is in a state of anarchy!
Roy: What?! Why?
Merlinus: There's been a rebellion among those who want to surrrender to Bern.
Roy: Is Lilina safe?
Merlinus: The spy says that she has been taken hostage. The rebels already took over Castle Ostia and are fighting the loyalist soldiers.
Roy: We must hurry to Ostia! Lilina... Please be safe!