@Opening
Of all the battles in the war so far, the contest for Fort Pinell is the fiercest to date. And from this horrific clash of weapons and wills, the Crimean army emerges bloodied and exhausted, yet victorious. The prize of Fort Pinell is no small thing, but it is the promise of additional reinforcements from Gallia-- and the large Begnion army encamped in Castle Daein--that keeps the breath of hope alive in the soldiers' hearts. There is one other pivotal piece in Daein's defense of the former Crimean capital--the severely undermanned Castle Nados. As the day's end draws near, Tibarn's small force of hawks and Gallians cease their attacks and return to camp headquarters.

@Intro
Tibarn: Ah, well met. From the looks of things, the battle ended in our favor.
Ike: We claimed victory. Yet Daein had more troops than we expected, and it was a hard-fought battle.
Tibarn: I don't have the best news to report, either.
Ike: What is it?
Tibarn: As the day ended, we withdrew as planned. But as we were leaving, reinforcements began flooding in from the capital.
Ike: Mmm... That's a piece of ill news.
Tibarn: The men that were originally guarding the castle were nothing special, but...There was one who appeared midbattle and crushed an entire unit by himself. He was so much stronger than the others, it was as if a wolf had appeared in a kennel of blind, newborn pups.
Ike: What did he look like?
Tibarn: He was covered from toe to tip in black armor. That made it difficult to judge his size, but I think he was bigger than me. If my intuition's right, he is the villian you've all been talking about.
Ike: The Black Knight... He's in that castle!
Bastian: General Ike! Please come with me. We're getting ready to have a war council and discuss tomorrow's battle.

Titania: So the Black Knight's in that castle, is he?
Ike: There's little doubt of it.
Ranulf: That beorc's a real handful. Even when I attacked him in cat form, I barely scratched him!
Ike: It's his armor. It's apparently blessed by the goddess. Ordinary weapons, natural or no, can't damage it.
Ranulf: Oh, that's just swell. So how are we supposed to defeat him? Angry looks?
Ike: Leave that to me. I've got a sword that should be effective against him...
Tibarn: I don't like it, but I suppose there's no choice. We don't use weapons or shields. Those are beorc tools for beorc alone.
Bastian: Very well, if the villain in question appears, we'll leave him to General Ike. Now then, shall we determine who among us storms the castle?
Mist: Ike... Can I talk to you?
Ike: Not right now, Mist. We're discussing battle strategy.
Mist: I know that. Even so... Please? It'll only take a moment.
Ike: Mist... I promise I'll make time later. Be patient and wait quietly.
Elincia: ...Ah...um...
Bastian: What is it, O beauteous one?
Elincia: I feel...a bit dizzy. May I rest a moment?
Bastian: Oh, what foul deed is this that rears its head? The gods of war do charge a heavy toll. Bewitch us, and attack our very minds! The princess, she is faint and o'er tired. Forgive your humble servant this trespass.
Bastian: Hark, my dear, and bless me with your arm. Good folk, we shall retire for a spell.
Geoffrey: Of course. Princess, please rest and allow us to proceed with these preparations.
Elincia: Th-thank you. I'm sorry.
Geoffrey was killed: Geoffrey was killed
Titania: So the Black Knight's in that castle, is he?
Ike: There's little doubt of it.
Ranulf: That beorc's a real handful. Even when I attacked him in cat form, I barely scratched him!
Ike: It's his armor. It's apparently blessed by the goddess. Ordinary weapons, natural or no, can't damage it.
Ranulf: Oh, that's just swell. So how are we supposed to defeat him? Angry looks?
Ike: Leave that to me. I've got a sword that should be effective against him...
Tibarn: I don't like it, but I suppose there's no choice. We don't use weapons or shields. Those are beorc tools for beorc alone.
Bastian: Very well, if the villain in question appears, we'll leave him to General Ike. Now then, shall we determine who among us storms the castle?
Mist: Ike... Can I talk to you?
Ike: Not right now, Mist. We're discussing battle strategy.
Mist: I know that. Even so... Please? It'll only take a moment.
Ike: Mist... I promise I'll make time later. Be patient and wait quietly.
Elincia: ...Ah...um...
Bastian: What is it, O beauteous one?
Elincia: I feel...a bit dizzy. May I rest a moment?
Bastian: Oh, what foul deed is this that rears its head? The gods of war do charge a heavy toll. Bewitch us, and attack our very minds! The princess, she is faint and o'er tired. Forgive your humble servant this trespass.
Bastian: Hark, my dear, and bless me with your arm. Good folk, we shall retire for a spell.
Titania: Yes, let's take a small break, shall we? Princess Elincia, this way please.
Elincia: Th-thank you. I'm sorry.

Ike: What is it?
Mist: ...Mmm...
Ike: Come on, Mist. You realize the princess was making time for you to talk with me, don't you?
Mist: ...Well, um... I thought I could talk to you later, but then I changed my mind and wanted to talk to you now.
Ike: I've been hoping to talk to you, too. I haven't heard very much from you since the other day.
Mist: Yeah... I'm sorry. When you told us that story...I was so shocked...That's why.
Ike: The part about Mother's death...and about Father, right?
Mist: Uh-huh.
Ike: That's only natural. So, you have come to some kind of understanding with it all? Is that it?
Mist: At first, I couldn't believe it. The stuff about the medallion and the revival of the dark god and all of that? None of it... None of it sounded real. And everything about Father...That was even more unbelievable.
Mist: It was all I could think about. But...But I didn't want to think about it anymore. It made my head hurt. I didn't know what to do. I couldn't even sleep. I would just lie awake at night and stare at the tent walls.
Ike: Yeah, I was the same way.
Mist: I guess my body finally reached its limit. Last night, I fell asleep. And when I woke up this morning...I don't know. It was all gone. I only had one emotion left.
Ike: One emotion? What was it?
Mist: It's hard to say... Sympathy, I suppose.
Ike: For Mother?
Mist: Uh-huh. And for Father. I think more for him than anyone else... Father and Mother were in love, weren't they? And then the medallion, it made Father go...what did you say? Berserk?
Mist: When he returned to himself, he found Mother...When, when Father died, it hurt so much...I thought I was going to die. Father must have felt the same. No, he must have felt even worse.
Ike: I think you're right. And Father kept it all to himself, too. Mother, the medallion, being hunted...He never said a word to us. It was his burden alone.
Mist: The man who killed Father was that knight we saw in Port Toha. Right? The one in the black armor?
Ike: Yes.
Mist: You're going to fight him, aren't you. For Father.
Ike: Yes, I am. That's one thing I won't let anyone else do in my stead.
Mist: Trying to stop you is pointless. I know. If I were stronger, if I were a swordfighter, I'd be doing the same thing.
Ike: Mist...
Mist: But...you must keep your promise. You promised to lead the company in Father's place, and to protect me. If you go and get yourself killed, I'll never forgive you.
Ike: I understand. That's why I'm not going to lose!
Mist: ...I know!

Bastian: How are you feeling, Princess?
Elincia: Um... It was a lie. I'm not feeling unwell at all. I'm sorry I fooled you.
Bastian: Ah, I knew it all along. It was all for Ike and Mist, was it not? It would appear, my dear Princess, that you care for them greatly.
Elincia: I witnessed the death of both my father and mother...Soldiers fell one after the other...And then I...I was separated from Geoffrey...It was Ike and his friends who rescued me. If not for them, I...I'm sure I would be dead now. My lord Ike and Mist, too, know the pain that I carry with me. The pain of losing one's parents in war. That may account for why the two of them, right from the beginning, were so warm and friendly. They gave me the support I needed to survive. Mist and I have continuously encouraged each other to go on. So...
Bastian: They rescued you and are your patrons. There are those among the soldiers who complain in jealousy of Ike's station, but...It is a trivial matter. We, the retainers of House Crimea, find this general very much to our liking.
Elincia: ...Ah, Bastian. I'm pleased to hear it.
Bastian: Enough plain speaking! I must ready my silver tongue anew! Shall we return to the council?
Elincia: Yes.

Hafedd: Sir Knight. The Crimean army will renew their assault of the castle momentarily. The troops we face are not the half-breeds we fought yesterday. It is the army that bested General Bertram. They are not what one would call an easy opponent.
Black Knight: Hmph. Resolve it.
Hafedd: I beg your pardon?
Black Knight: Hafedd, you are in command. The castle defenses are on your shoulders. I have business with General Ena.
Hafedd: Understood.
Ike: Is everyone ready? The castle's strength has been bolstered with reinforcements from the capital. We must strike now, before any more can arrive. If the Black Knight appears, don't try to engage him. He is mine. I will take care of him!

@Boss
Hafedd: If not for a whim of His Majesty, I would not be facing you here. For a warrior, meeting a powerful foe is a joy above all others... And for this I give thanks to the king! Now, let us enjoy the gift we have been given.

Hafedd: It appears...this is the end...Gwaaa... Hurrrkkk... Aaahhhh...

@End
Ike: The one I seek is behind these doors. Don't follow me. I'm going in alone.
Soren: Ike! Wait! I'm going with--
Titania: No, Soren. We have to let Ike go alone. The Black Knight is his. Defeating him is a crucial step that Ike must take in order to truly get over the death of his father.
Soren: Idiocy! I'll hear no more of this naive nonsense! What if something happens to him? What then?
Titania: I think Ike has gained the composure to keep calm and judge whether or not he can match an opponent. If, in fact, he can't...it means he's reached his full potential, and that's all there is to him. We just have to accept that. But I believe in Ike. I trust him. His life is not his alone any longer. I don't believe he's so irresponsible as to leave his companions behind by choosing to engage in a contest he cannot win. Please, Soren, you must feel the same way. Don't you?
Soren: ...I don't like it. Sometimes, bravery and good judgment aren't enough.
Titania: Commander Greil... Watch over your son.

@Conversation
Titania: Commander, can I speak to you for a moment?
Ike: What is it, Titania?
Titania: I have...something important to ask of you.
Ike: All right, what is it?
Titania: I want you to tell me...about the night Commander Greil was killed. I understand that it's difficult for you. However, I need to know. I have to. Just tell it once... It's all I ask. If you can't, I... His death will be something I'll never be able to face.
Ike: I feel I've done you a terrible disservice by not telling you earlier. It's just that... There was a lot I had to get clear in my own mind. I know I've kept you waiting.
Titania: So you'll tell me?
Ike: Yes. I think I've finally come to a point where I can face it.
Titania: All right. Whenever you're ready.
Ike: That night... I've already told you everything up to where I was on my way into the forest, right? At the head of the path, Father had told me to go back to the fort--but I had a bad feeling and followed him anyway. When I entered the clearing, he and the Black Knight were already fighting. They seemed to be evenly matched at first. Then they exchanged a few more blows, and suddenly Father was sent flying. They spoke to each other for a moment, but...I was so far away, I couldn't hear what they said. Then the Black Knight threw a sword at Father's feet. I think he wanted Father to pick it up and use it.
Titania: ...
Ike: But Father didn't touch the sword. He just readied his axe again and charged.......It was over in an instant. I...I couldn't believe my own eyes. They...they looked like they were embracing...Just... Standing there. Frozen. But, I saw the Black Knight's blade...It was protruding from Father's back, and shining in the moonlight.
Titania: Oh, Greil...
Ike: When the knight pulled his sword out, Father sagged and fell backwards... I ran and tried to catch him, but I couldn't hold him, and we both fell to the ground. The wound Father had taken was terrible, but at that point, he was still alive.
Titania: ...
Ike: The Black Knight approached and said, Give it to me. I had no idea what he was talking about. I do now, though. He had been sent by King Ashnard to retrieve the medallion. Father told him he'd thrown the medallion away, but the knight didn't believe him. Then he tried to get Father to talk by threatening to kill me...and Mist. I was so angry, I leapt up and attacked him, but it was useless. I didn't give up, though. I didn't care what happened to me, and I attacked again.
Titania: Of all the stubbornness...
Ike: If King Gallia hadn't been nearby, I probably would have died that night, too.
Titania: ...
Ike: After the Black Knight vanished, I simply...All I could think was that I didn't want Father to die. He... He was still alive. I thought if I could just get him back to the fort, we could save him. I clung to that...false hope...and started walking toward the light of the fort... I just kept walking...
Titania: ...Thank you, Ike. It must have been so hard for you.
Ike: Titania...
Titania: Commander Greil died on your back. His last moments must have been...much happier than I had imagined......Thank you... Now I can finally...move past my grief...
Ike: ...Titania.
Titania: Yes?
Ike: I, um... There's something else I haven't told you about.
Titania: ...
Ike: I...met him... I met the Black Knight again.
Titania: What?
Ike: We fought.
Titania: You did well to keep your life.
Ike: I'm not the same boy I was on that night. I've grown a lot. I've worked hard. Yet, even so, I wasn't able to defeat him.
Titania: There's nothing you can do about that. Not even Commander Greil could defeat him. You're not ready to--
Ike: It's not that. It's not that my blade work wasn't good enough.
Titania: Then, what do you mean?
Ike: Titania, it's his armor. It's impervious to damage.
Titania: What? That's not possible. Even the strongest--
Ike: He said his armor had been blessed by the goddess. He said only weapons that were also blessed could hurt him.
Titania: Where are we supposed to get something like that?
Ike: I have one here.
Titania: Ah! Ike! That sword... Where...
Ike: The night after Father died, I went back to that clearing by myself. I'd hoped to...I'd hoped to find some clues that might help me hunt down the knight. The sword was still there. I brought it back with me, and I've been hiding it ever since. I wasn't thinking about using it. I believed that if I just carried the sword with me, I'd meet the Black Knight again.  And it worked.
Titania: So this sword will work against him?
Ike: It's supposed to. It was made to contest Alondite, which is the sword wielded by the Black Knight.
Titania: Do you think you have a chance?
Ike: ...I'll win.
Titania: All right. I won't stop you. Use that sword to avenge Commander Greil. But listen, Ike... You must promise me one thing.
Ike: What is it?
Titania: When you meet him, you'll exchange blows. If, at that moment, you don't feel you stand a chance...you must flee. There are times when running away is not the same as losing.
Ike: Don't you believe in me, Titania?
Titania: Of course I do. One day, you will defeat the Black Knight. I'm sure of it. That's why I don't want you to lose your life on the first go-around. When the time comes, I promise not to interfere. And I won't let anyone else interfere, either. I want you to face him, one-on-one. And I want you to be calm and use your own best judgement. At times, withdrawing can be the key that unlocks a future victory. Don't forget that.
Ike: ...Understood.

@Intro
Black Knight: Why did you return to Crimea? You had the perfect opportunity to escape.
Ena: ...I'm going to the capital.
Black Knight: No. You are not. The king has ordered me to put an end to you.
Ena: I thought as much... So be it. I am prepared.
Black Knight: Will you not resist?
Ena: I do not believe I could prevail against one of your power.
Black Knight: How extremely frank.
Ena: My only wish was to be beside the one I love. If that is not to be, then it matters not what happens to me.
Black Knight: As my last act of compassion, I shall make your end a swift and merciful one. Do you have any final words?
Ena: ...If you see Nasir, tell him that Ena was sorry.
Black Knight: If I have the opportunity, I will so tell him. Rest in peace.
Ena: ...My...love...
Ike: Turn and face me, Black Knight!
Black Knight: Hmph. I've been waiting for you, child.
Ike: Ah! Did you kill that girl?
Black Knight: Despite my promise, the blow was not clean. She breathes still.
Ike: I'll take her.
Black Knight: You'll have to do so by force. You brought the sacred sword Ragnell, did you not?
Ike: It's right here. If using it is the only condition I need fulfill to defeat you, I will not hesitate!
Black Knight: It appears you've grown smarter. Good. There is no challenge in killing a fool. Shall we begin?
Mist: Brother!
Ike: Mist? No! Stay back!
Mist: I... I will fight you! I'll never let you kill my brother!
Ike: Mist, you--
Black Knight: Gawain's daughter, eh? Good. Now I can pull out the entire family tree by the root.
Ike: You're not to interfere, Mist! This craven wretch is mine!
Black Knight: Hmph! Do as you will. This time, we begin in earnest!

@Boss
%Ike,Black Knight
Black Knight: What an odd fate. This will be the third time I have defeated you. The first was in the forest of Gallia. The second at Delbray in Crimea.
Ike: We've met twice, and I've lost twice. But the third time will be different.
Black Knight: Oh?
Ike: My sword-fighting skills were given to me by my father. If I stay true to them, I cannot lose.
Black Knight: Did you never think that using your father's techniques on the man who killed him would be futile?
Ike: My father robbed himself of using his stronger arm. If he had, he would not have lost to the likes of you.
Black Knight: Hah... You think so? Let us test your stronger arm then. Come, son of Gawain...Show me your strength.

@Battle
Daein Soldier: Protect the Black Knight!
Black Knight: Do not interfere! This man is my prey! I need no assistance.
Daein Soldier: Oh! Then...uh... Hey, get that girl! Kill her before she flees!
Ike: Get out of here, Mist!
Mist: No!! I'm not leaving you! I can protect myself. I won't run away!

Black Knight: Will you flee? How appropriate. Tuck tail and run, child of Gawain! It is what dogs do best, after all. I like how you tremble with fear at the realization that you are no match for me. It suits you.
Ike: Foul villain! I do not flee. I will never turn my back on you and run away!

@Boss
Black Knight: You've grown stronger...I...commend you...

@End
^start
Ike: Haaaah... Haaaaa...
Daein Soldier: Th-the Black Knight's fallen! How can this be? D-don't... Don't think you're going to walk out of here, though! Now! Activate the traps now!
Ike: What's going on? This rumbling...
Ena: ...Nasir?
Nasir: Ena!
Ike: Mist, we have to go!
Mist: A-all right...
Ike: Hurry!
Ike: ...Father......I...finally...I stopped him...Father...
Mist: B-Brother! Thank goodness...I'm so happy you're alive!
Ike: Mist... I avenged Father.
Mist: I know.
Ike: Even now, though, I'm not as good as Father was. There's no way I could ever defeat him...Defeating the Black Knight was my way...I wanted to show him how strong Father really was.
Mist: I know, Ike. I know.
Ike: Our Father was the best in the world...A great man.
Mist: That's right! Dad was great...and so was Mom...And so are you, Brother. I love you all! I'm so proud of my fantastic, wonderful family!
Titania: Ike! Mist! Both of you...You did so well...
Soren: ...
Ike: I really had you worried, didn't I? But now it's--
Titania: Don't say anything. I understand.
Ike: Let's get back to the others...I can't do anything else today.
Mist: Right!
Ike: How's she doing?
Titania: She's going to be all right. She's sleeping in the back.
Ike: And Nasir?
Titania: He's there with her. He's been taking care of her the entire time.
Ike: I see.
Ike: Nasir.
Nasir: Ike. I am sorry for escaping and...causing all the problems I did. When we arrived in Crimea, I sensed Ena...I had to go and look for her.
Ike: Is that so?
Nasir: You...you saved her, didn't you? I don't know how to thank you.
Ike: I'm not worried about it. I just want you to talk to me. What's the connection between you and Ena?
Nasir: Ena...is my only granddaughter.
Ike: Your granddaughter? That can't be.You're not old enough to...
Nasir: It may be difficult for you beorc to believe, but...We of the dragon tribe live for a very, very long time. When we reach a certain maturity, we stop showing almost all signs of further aging. For example, do you remember Prince Kurthnaga whom you met in Goldoa?
Ike: Yeah, he was a nice kid.
Nasir: The prince is the youngest in all of Goldoa, yet for all his apparent youth, he's at least a hundred years old.
Ike: A hundred...
Nasir: Ike...
Ike: Yes?
Nasir: Why did you save Ena? She was your foe, after all...
Ike: You were willing to put yourself in danger so she could escape. I assumed she must be dear to you.
Nasir: You did that for a dirty traitor? Under the guise of providing information to Gallia, I gave the same information to Daein. I also took Mist's medallion and gave it to King Ashnard... And even so, you...
Ike: You helped us many times over. If there are reasons for all this, would you tell me about them? I'd like to help.
Nasir: I cannot. At least not yet...
Ike: That's not the answer I wanted, Nasir.
Nasir: Please. I want you to believe me. I am not your enemy. King Daein had Ena with him. For her sake, there was nothing else I could do. Forgive me.
Ike: Tell me, are you willing to display your loyalty?
Nasir: What do you mean?
Ike: Ashnard is in the Crimean capital. If we hope to defeat him, it would help to have the cooperation of one who's been close to him. If you're not our enemy, then prove it by aiding us.
Nasir: All right, I understand. On the strength of your belief in me, I swear I will not betray you again.
Ike: There's one other thing I need to hear. How much do you know about the medallion? Did you realize what it was when you gave it to Ashnard?
Nasir: I'm fairly sure that I know more about it than you do. I can't go into details, but... Merely gaining possession of the idol does not allow King Daein to release the dark god. The reason for that is--
Ike: The only one who can sing the galdr of release is a girl named Altina. Right?
Nasir: That's correct. I, too, investigated Palmeni Temple.
Ike: Yet King Daein doesn't know that, and he's kidnapped Leanne. Based on what happened in the past, who knows what he may do...
Nasir: Earlier, I was able to speak briefly with Ena. It sounded like she knew where the heron princess is being held. When she awakes, we shall ask her about it.

Nasir: Ike!
Ike: Is that you, Nasir? What are you doing here?
Nasir: Ike, I'll take over from here. Hurry and leave this place.
Ike: You know I can't do that. Besides, the Black Knight can't be defeated--not without this blade.
Nasir: Ike, I cannot allow you to die here. Please...take care of the girl, Ena.
Black Knight: Nasir...I didn't expect to see you here. What a fool.
Ena: ...Aahh......Ah! Nasir!
Black Knight: Uargh... Yet, that's not nearly enough...
Nasir: Ike! The castle's collapsing!! Get out now!
Black Knight: What's this? It can't be...this entire castle...I...Ungh! I-I can't move! This c-can't be...happening...
Nasir: ...Ike. Now's your chance...Take...Ena. Take care of Ena!
Ike: Nasir!
Ena: Nasir...
Ena: ...
Titania: Ike! Mist! Both of you...You did so well...
Soren: ...
Ike: I really had you worried, didn't I? But now it's--
Titania: Don't say anything. I understand.
Ike: Let's get back to the others...I can't do anything else today.
Mist: Right!
Titania: Ike. She's awake.
Ike: Good.
Ike: How are you feeling?
Ena: Where am I?
Ike: In our camp.
Ena: ...You saved me, didn't you? Why?
Ike: Because Nasir asked me to.
Ena: What? Where is he? I...I must speak to him!
Ike: Nasir is dead...
Ena: What?
Ike: He protected me and engaged the Black Knight. The castle fell around them both...
Ena: Is that...so...So, it wasn't a dream......
Ike: Just who...who were you to him? Why were you serving King Daein?
Ena: I am Ena... He... Nasir was my grandfather.
Ike: You're Nasir's granddaughter?
Ena: It seems impossible for beorc to believe it, but we of the dragon tribe live for thousands of years. Once we reach a certain maturity, we show no further outward signs of aging.
Ike: A thousand years... I can't begin to imagine.
Ena: And...um...about Nasir...You must be aware that he betrayed you. And yet you saved me. I, who had once been your enemy. Why?
Ike: Nasir helped us time and time again. No matter what, I couldn't see him as a true enemy. If there are reasons for all this, would you tell me about them? I'd like to help. In Nasir's stead.
Ena: I...I can't tell you now.
Ike: That's not the answer I was hoping for.
Ena: However, in payment of my debt to you, I can provide information. I will tell you where the heron princess is being held.
Ike: Ah. That's a good start.
@end