@Opening 
The Kingdom Army meets with Rodrigue in Ailell, the Valley of Torment. With the strength of House Fraldarius on their side, the time to invade the Empire is finally at hand.

@Dialogue 
Rodrigue: Even though it's in ruins, in some strange way, this monastery never truly changes, does it? I studied at the Officers Academy when I was young. Those memories come rushing back whenever I return. What are you doing at this hour, anyway?
Byleth: I couldn't sleep.
Rodrigue:  It's the same for me.
Byleth: Nothing.
Rodrigue: I see.
Rodrigue: Perhaps you'll allow me to join you...
Rodrigue: . I keep recalling my eldest son... He was quite gifted. In fact, he was appointed a knight at the age of 15. I still vividly remember the day he was granted a sword from His Majesty...
Byleth: Your son... Isn't he...
Rodrigue: Dead. He was killed nine years ago in Duscur. All that returned of him that day were his sword and his armor... After it happened, I said something horrible to Felix. He's hated me ever since...and I don't blame him. No matter how much you grieve, the dead will never return. No magic in the world can bring them back. That's why their memory clings to the living like a curse. The more they were loved, the tighter their hold, and the more suffering they cause... I fear I am not a strong enough man to scold His Highness for his foolishness.
Byleth: Someone must.
Rodrigue: Right you are... As adults, it is our responsibility to scold him and help him find his way again, but really... I'm just a failure of a man. 
Byleth: I know how you feel...
Rodrigue: Since this war began, we've seen countless generals, soldiers, and citizens die. It never gets easier. 
Rodrigue: Professor... I entrust the young prince, and the future of Faerghus, to you.
Byleth: This is unexpected...
Rodrigue: I suppose that was a dramatic way of putting it. My apologies.
Byleth: I won't let you down.
Rodrigue: You're a brave one, aren't you? One worthy of leading the Church of Seiros, I daresay.
Rodrigue: You should know that I have no intention of insisting that you take back Fhirdiad. All I ask is that you continue to rein in Dimitri's manic desire for revenge. Now then... we have received House Riegan's consent. All that's left is for us to depart. If we make it through Gloucester Territory and across the Great Bridge of Myrddin, we'll be in Empire territory. You are not afraid, are you?
Byleth: A little.
Rodrigue: Ha! No need to worry. Don't you underestimate the power of my soldiers.
Byleth: I don't feel anything.
Rodrigue: Yes.Such is war...
Rodrigue: I'm glad you were the one to lead the Blue Lion House, Professor. I mean that...

@Conversation 
Dimitri: If you stand in my way, I will strike you down.



Felix: Leaving the house in my uncle's hands? What is the old man thinking? I always knew my father was mad, but this time he's gone too far.
Byleth: I agree. 
Felix: My uncle is a reliable man. But still.
Byleth: I'm actually grateful to him.
Felix: Easy for you to say. You hardly know the man.
Felix: Only a fool would abandon his own territory.



Ashe: The area around Castle Gaspard, where I was living, is under the control of House Rowe, who have submitted to the Empire. If I hadn't come to Garreg Mach, I might have ended up as your enemy at Ailell. That thought makes me really happy to be here now. I don't think I would have been able to handle facing all of you in battle.



Sylvain: I had an encounter with Lord Gwendal... How many years ago was it? Back before the academy, I met this girl who I fell madly in love with...and her dad tried to kill me. I suppose he just tried to scare me, but I was sure I was gonna die. Oh yeah, her dad? Lord Gwendal. Crazy, right? I never thought I'd seriously be trying to kill the guy in battle. I kind of don't know how to make sense of it.



Mercedes: It looks like we're all set with food supplies, thanks to Lord Rodrigue! We have more soldiers to feed now, so we'll still need to ration... But I think we have enough extra to make some tasty treats! I'll go scout the pantry.
Byleth: That would be wonderful. 
Mercedes: We can enjoy it together over some tea!
Byleth: We shouldn't be wasteful...
Mercedes: That's true, but it's important to indulge every now and again. It's been so difficult lately and everyone is worn out. We won't be able to go on if we don't treat ourselves!

Annette: Next we face the Great Bridge of Myrddin... We actually crossed it a long time ago. Do you remember? It was five whole years ago!
Byleth: During the Battle of the Eagle and Lion? 
Annette: It seems like so long ago, doesn't it? It's odd how fast time flies...
Byleth: When we went to Remire Village?
Annette: What are you talking about, Professor? It was on the way to the Battle of the Eagle and Lion!
Annette: Everyone was still friends then. After the fighting, we all ate together without splitting into our separate houses. I often wish we could go back to those peaceful days...



Ingrid: Just like House Fraldarius, House Galatea is currently being invaded by the Dukedom. My family is not as wealthy as most others, so we are incapable of sparing resources or reinforcements. I'm sorry. It's just so frustrating, not being able to do anything to help.



Ferdinand: What used to be Aegir territory lies far to the east of the Great Bridge of Myrddin, downstream of the Airmid River. For the sake of my family, I wish we could invade the Empire from there. But I do not have the power to advocate for that. Strategically, Myrddin is more important.
Byleth: Someday, we'll take it back. 
Ferdinand: Thank you, Professor. I will not give in. Not until I have restored my noble pride!
Byleth: Taking it back would be difficult.
Ferdinand: Yes, I know it would be difficult, but I will not give in!



Linhardt: Since I'm originally from the Empire, it seems no one trusts me with any important tasks. Fine by me. Honestly, I'd bet they're watching my every move to make sure I can be trusted.
Byleth: I'm sure they're not...
Linhardt: If I were in charge, it's what I would do.
Byleth: Probably. 
Linhardt: I knew it. War makes people crazy, huh?



Caspar: The Airmid River separates the Empire and Alliance. It's the largest river in Fódlan. Sometimes it'll flood when there's lots of rain, but... At least the land gets some extra water!

Bernadetta: War isn't kind to you if you're a recluse. By the time you realize what's going on, you're already under attack. And if you're off by yourself, you can get killed with no one ever finding out.
Byleth: Sounds like you're learning.
Byleth: I highly doubt that would happen. 
Bernadetta: Oh, that'd be awful--just terrible! OK, Professor, I get it. I know I'll have to come out.



Dorothea: We're going to invade the Empire...which means we'll be fighting people we know, won't we? If we're attacked by someone we know, or used to think of as a friend, is it permitted to run away?
Byleth: No, it's not OK.
Dorothea: Makes sense. A commander running away would be terrible for morale.
Byleth: I wouldn't blame you. 
Dorothea: Really? If something happens, will you keep me safe?



Petra: If we can suppress this Myrddin, we can invade into the Empire. Right? I was in the Empire. Now I will be an enemy... I am having strange feelings. It is with ease that an ally turns into an enemy.



Raphael: I finally got to eat a full meal for the first time in forever, and it's all thanks to Lord Rodrigue! I've got so much energy! Let me at that Great Bridge of Myrddin! I'll bust it down myself! Oh, but then how do we cross?



Ignatz: The Great Bridge of Myrddin isn't just a bridge. It has the features of a fortress. I believe it was built for military purposes by the first leader of the Adrestian Empire. In other words, it's even older than the monastery. So if we occupy the Great Bridge, we'll have to search it from top to bottom.



Lysithea: I'm sure you know this already, but House Ordelia is aligned with the Empire. They face the Empire from across a river, similar to the Gloucesters. Even so, I refuse to yield to the Empire a second time. The Empire did unthinkable things to my family. And to me. The only option here is winning. Professor, you must promise we will overcome the Empire.



Marianne: My adoptive father is planning on supporting the Riegan family in the upcoming operation. He says it's the perfect opportunity to get both the Alliance and the Kingdom on his side. He even insisted that I promote the good name of House Edmund to the people of the Kingdom.
Byleth: Have you managed to do that?
Marianne: No... I'm not very good at this sort of thing.
Byleth: Do you really need to promote them? 
Marianne: He'll see right through me if I lie, so I can't ignore the request...
Marianne: But I suppose I did just tell you, so that must count for something.



Hilda: Claude says he's on our side. I know everything will be fine if we leave it to him! He may act like a layabout, but he's actually smart. And although Claude isn't honest about some things, you can trust him when it counts.
Byleth: You're not calming my nerves.
Hilda: No, I'm sure it'll be fine! That's just my gut feeling, but still.
Byleth: Yeah, I'm not worried. 
Hilda: Yeah, he'll do us proud! That's just my gut feeling, but still.



Leonie: Lord Rodrigue seems reliable. But even with his help, aren't we still a little shorthanded? We can probably make it to the Great Bridge of Myrddin. But beyond that, I don't know. Don't let Dimitri push you too much, Professor. It'll shorten your life for sure.



Seteth: So, the renowed Shield of Faerghus is now on our side. That is quite reassuring. Not only will he provide valuable support in battle, but he has also brought us much-needed supplies. We cannot grow complacent, however. We must take the Imperial capital as soon as possible.



Flayn: Being here brings back all manner of memories. The days I spent studying here with you and everyone else--those days were so special to me. They truly were some of the warmest days of my life. I hold them dear in my heart. And now, to be forced to fight with those I was once so close to, my friends... It is most saddening.



Hanneman: The battle at Ailell was a tactical marvel. You grow stronger with each passing day. Where does your talent end and your Crest's power begin? Are they one and the same, I wonder? Most intriguing. Yet it is quite difficult to draw useful conclusions, given the situation. It is quite unfortunate I did not achieve my research goals before the war broke out. So much unknown. Now, I fear I will not have those answers even by conflict's end. So very frustrating.



Manuela: Oh, hello there, Professor. Did you need something from me? It doesn't look like you're wounded or anything. You just looking for...someone to talk to?
Byleth: Yes. 
Manuela: I thought so. Well, I'm here for you! Making you feel better is my top priority.
Byleth: No.
Manuela: Come on now, you don't have to be shy. Helping you feel better is important to me.
Manuela: Whether it's physical pain or worries of the heart, you can come to me for anything, Professor.



Gilbert: House Fraldarius is a military house. They swore fealty to the royal family at the Kingdom's founding. The current family head, Lord Rodrigue, was raised like a brother to the former king. He harbors a loyalty that goes beyond mere duty. Perhaps that is why he was willing to lend us his aid.



Alois: I thought House Fraldarius had an invasion of their own to worry about. I'm impressed Lord Rodrigue was willing to provide us all these reinforcements and supplies. The knights' morale is really boosted, seeing as they have had their first good meal in a while. Let's hope we can keep this up, and take down the Great Bridge of Myrddin!



Catherine: Gwendal made the ultimate sacrifice in service of House Rowe. I understand that feeling. I'd do anything for Lady Rhea.
Byleth: But--
Catherine: You think we should have stopped him. You might be right about that.
Byleth: I understand it too. 
Catherine: I'm surprised. I didn't peg you as the kind of person to say that sort of thing.
Catherine: At any rate, it's up to the individual how to demonstrate loyalty.



Shamir: So, House Riegan accepted. I knew the leader of the Alliance wouldn't refuse. Still, we can't let our guard down. There's no telling when he'll turn on us. If we advance through the Alliance into the Empire, our chances for reconnaissance will be limited. I just hope it goes according to plan.



Cyril: Lady Rhea must be so scared. We gotta find her quick as we can. We got reinforcements from the Kingdom people now, right? Then we oughta be able to go save her!



Rodrigue: Even after all these decades, the academy hasn't changed a bit. I remember it well, even now. I used to sneak out of lectures with Lambert almost every day... I suppose this is not the time for an old man's nostalgia. We have received approval from House Riegan. We should set out as soon as you're ready.



Gatekeeper: Greetings, Professor! Nothing to report! Lord Rodrigue is revered by all as the Shield of Faerghus. I was imagining a more stern-faced fellow, but he's actually quite friendly. Shocking! I heard that he recently spent the night drinking in the dining hall with soldiers from the church...

@Intro 
Gilbert: Our scout has returned. As expected, there are quite a few Imperial soldiers stationed there.
Dimitri: I see. So the enemy has prepared for our arrival... It matters not. I will kill them all, whether they are one or one hundred.
Byleth: That's not necessary.
Byleth: Don't say such things...
Dimitri: What would you do, if you saw the people who stole everything from you? If you saw them right before your eyes, living carefree lives and feeling no guilt. Would you feel nothing? Do nothing? Five years ago... Did you not deem the woman who killed Jeralt to be unforgivable? I am most certain that you did. You couldn't let her get away with her crime, so you took up your sword in pursuit.
Byleth: You're wrong.
Dimitri: I think not. We're the same, you and I.
Byleth: You're right.
Dimitri: Precisely my point. We're the same, you and I.
Felix: You're wasting your time. There's nothing to be gained from exchanging words with a boar that has lost its mind.
Gilbert: Felix...
Felix: This is war. Every last one of us has lost someone we care for. But we choose to suppress our anger and go right on living. Do you know why?
Byleth: Because we've given up.
Felix: Revenge can't bring the dead back to life. Unfortunately such a thing isn't possible. Hanging onto your anger, like the boar here, is futile.
Byleth: Because it's pointless.
Felix: That's right. All the boar is accomplishing is stacking up more corpses.
Dimitri: Tell me, Felix... If the dead are beyond reach, is it not also pointless to mourn or even bury those who are lost?
Felix: Ha. That mind of yours. I'm done here. Remember, Professor. It's not compassion for this fool that has brought our army so far. There are those of us who despise the Empire, and those who side with the church. If we keep running down this path, it's only a matter of time before the ground beneath us collapses.
Rodrigue: That's enough, Felix.
Felix: Hmph. You're a damned fool, old man.
Rodrigue: The soldiers are ready to march on your command.
Dimitri: Then let's move out at once. Every moment counts.
Rodrigue: Understood. Let's show those Empire dastards the power of the Knights of Faerghus!

@Opening 
Intent on the Imperial Capital, the Kingdom army goes around the Oghma Mountains and marches through Alliance territory as they continue south. But this route takes them through the territory of House Gloucester--Imperial supporters--so they request help from Claude, the leader of House Riegan. Claude agrees to to distract House Gloucester's soldiers, and the Kingdom army marches onward toward the Great Bridge of Myrddin to cross the Airmid River, which separates the Alliance and the Empire.

After fending off the Empire, your forces decide it's time to advance. But first, you must capture the Great Bridge of Myrddin, a strategic crossing point over the Airmid River, which borders the Alliance and the Empire.

@Battle 
Ladislava: That symbol...it's an enemy raid! Stay calm and face them head-on. Send a messenger to Acheron immediately! If we're quick, we might be able to pull off a pincer attack!
Dimitri: Edelgard's dog, huh? All the more reason to kill her.

Rodrigue: Attack Ladislava and take the bridge. Shall we begin?

Rodrigue: Let's deal with the enemies protecting the fortress quickly, and take control of this area.
Imperial Soldier: Enemies approaching! Get the soldiers standing by to join the fight! We may need to hurry up preparations of the ballista too. Protect the fortress!


Imperial Soldier: You think we'll let you take this bridge form us?
Rodrigue: This is no good... Reinforcements keep coming, and more will soon join them.


Dedue: Your Highness! Apologies for the late arrival.
Dimitri: Dedue... You're alive... How?!
Dedue: We can discuss it later. For now, allow me to join your forces.

Lorenz: I, Lorenz Hellman Gloucester, have arrived to join the battle in my father's stead! 
Alliance General: We'll ally ourselves with the Imperial soldiers too! 
Ladislava: Thanks for making your way here. Annihilate the enemy with the rest of them!
Lorenz: Is that...the professor? Why would someone like that join such a senseless fight?
Ferdinand: Lorenz! Here you are. I am heading south, so I will leave this area to you.


Ladislava: Acheron! Now's the time to show your loyalty to the Empire! Attack the enemy from behind!
Acheron: I've got to make her name known to Her Majesty through distinguished service.
Rodrigue: Acheron, a minor lord of the Alliance territory... If he's fighting for the Empire, we've no choice but to attack him.

@Boss 
Acheron: As they say, if you can't beat them, join them. I'm not in for a beating, am I?

Acheron: Argh... I never should have allied with... the Empire...

Ladislava: To repay Her Majesty's favor...I will not let you pass!

Ladislava: I can't retreat... Even if it costs me my life, I've got to protect the Great Bridge.

Ladislava: Lady Edelgard... I'm sorry...

Ferdinand: Ladislava, no! I will protect this area!

Ferdinand: After this battle, I will be known far and wide as the legendary Ferdinand of Adrestia!

%Byleth,Ferdinand
Ferdinand: Edelgard has always been obsessed with you. I am a little envious, to be frank. I will just have to impress her with my skills on the battlefield!

%Dorothea,Ferdinand
Dorothea: Oh, Ferdie. You opposed Edie for so long... I had real hopes for you, you know? Now you're following her. Is that your duty as a noble? Follow your master when they say to heel?
Ferdinand: I will not try to explain my duty or hers. You would not understand. I wish you could. Anyway, no time for idle chitchat!

@Boss
Ferdinand: Retreat, Ladislava! Tell Her Majesty about this!
Ladislava: We've already sent a messenger! I can't let you die while I flee!
Ferdinand: In that case... Even if I die, you must protect this area.

Ferdinand: Even if I die, please... protect this area.

Lorenz: To oppose the Empire at a time like this would be entirely too reckless.

%Byleth,Lorenz
Lorenz: It's been a while, Professor. If this were anywhere but a battlefield, I would offer you tea. I've no choice but to follow the Empire, if I wish to live. I hope you will not think ill of me.

@Boss
Lorenz: Lay me to rest...in a manner that is befitting...of the nobility...

Lorenz: I yield. Though I will not beg for my life. That would be unbecoming, wouldn't it?

Lorenz: You're inviting me to join you? But...to abandon House Gloucester... No--I can convince my father. I will help you topple the Empire, I swear it!

@End
Dimitri: It's a farce. All of it...

Dimitri: Dedue! Why...How are you here? You died. Five years ago...
Dedue: I was saved by my brothers. Men of Duscur.
Dimitri: Those people you were with... They were of Duscur? And they saved you?
Dedue: Your Highness. I asked that you fulfill your long-held desire, did I not? Allow me to once again act as your sword and shield. Please, let me witness your triumph. I want to behold the moment your wish is finally granted.
Dimitri: Dedue... Of course. And in exchange, I ask that you swear something to me, here and now. Do not ever throw your life away again. Understood?
Dedue: Your Highness... Understood.

Dimitri: Idiots. Embracing death for the sake of that woman. Truly foolish...
Byleth: Aren't you happy we won?
Byleth: What troubles you?
Dimitri: I... I don't know.
Byleth: Do you regret killing them?
Dimitri: They were just beasts with human faces. I had no choice but to kill them, and so I did. That...that is all there is to it.
Rodrigue: It's about time you two returned. We must discuss our next course of action.

Maiden: Please! I need to join you, no matter the cost!
Kingdom General: I'm sorry, but my hands are tied...
Rodrigue: By the goddess! What's with all the commotion?
Maiden: *gasps* 
Rodrigue: What is this girl doing here? This is an army, not an orphanage.
Kingdom General: I believe she's from a nearby village. She keeps insisting that she needs to join our ranks.
Rodrigue: And you thought we could use a child on the front lines? Hurry up and take her back to her parents.
Maiden: My family is gone. I don't have anywhere else to go. Please! I can use magic and I can fight! I can cook, do laundry, anything!
Rodrigue: I'm sure there are plenty of more suitable places to find work. Why are you so fixated on this army, young lady?
Maiden: I need...to get revenge. I must strike down the one who murdered my big brother!
Rodrigue: Your Highness... What should we do?
Dimitri: Let her do as she pleases.
Maiden: Thank you...very much.@Opening 
The Kingdom army has captured Fort Merceus. Managing troops from the now-stable western Kingdom and former Alliance territory, the Kingdom army returns to Garreg Mach to regroup and reorganize its forces. With sufficient might to challenge the Empire, the Kingdom army finalizes their plans to march on Enbarr, the Imperial Capital.

@Dialogue 
Gilbert: Ah, there you are. His Highness was looking for you.
Byleth: Where is he?
Gilbert: He's gone ahead, and started interrogating the prisoner–Viscount Kleiman's man. He said he'd like for you and I to be present as well. Will you come with me?



Dimitri: I cannot overlook your reckless remarks. Are you really so keen to lose your head?
Prisoner: I only did what I believed was right. I swear to the goddess that I'm not lying. Amidst the turmoil of the tragedy, Lady Patricia was supposed to be the only one who was unharmed. We had been given orders ahead of time to not approach her carriage...
Byleth: Was Patricia an accomplice?
Dimitri: Of course not. What would my stepmother have had to gain from such a...
Gilbert: Perhaps Lady Patricia would have done anything to return to the Empire...to her husband and daughter.
Dimitri: What exactly are you implying?
Gilbert: For the past few months, I've been spying on lords who defected to the Empire in order to investigate rumors about Lady Patricia. Cornelia's words were true. The two of them... I am afraid they conspired together, after all.
Dimitri: Enough of this nonsense. You say she wished to return home? That isn't nearly enough reason to cause such a tragedy.
Gilbert:  I do not intend to imply that the two of them were solely responsible for the whole affair. There were likely nobles who opposed the king, or potentially someone who wanted to throw the Kingdom into chaos. The Empire, and people like Solon and Kronya, had their motives, too.
Dimitri: So my stepmother joined with them to cause the tragedy... Is that what you believe?
Gilbert: Ultimately, this is just conjecture based on the evidence at hand. I have no idea what their true intentions were.
Dimitri: I see. We will hear what this man has to say. For now...
Prisoner: My lord had long felt that King Lambert's radical ways were dangerous. At the time, he was approached with an offer to take part in the incident at Duscur... My lord loves his homeland. To me, he embodied justice. We were only doing what we thought was right.
Dimitri: And so, in the name of justice, he caused massacre upon massacre out of love for his homeland. You murdered your own king, killed our soldiers, and involved innocent citizens. And yet you have the gall to speak of justice?
Prisoner: I am only standing before you now because I could no longer bear the weight of my sins.
Byleth: Did you share those feelings about your homeland?
Prisoner: Yes... I believe I do.
Byleth: Do you regret your actions?
Prisoner: No. I accept your hatred, and even the punishment of death, but I still believe it was a massacre in the name of justice.
Dimitri: Gilbert. Lock this man in his cell.
Gilbert: Are you not...going to kill him?
Dimitri: I will make that decision once I have had time to consider this man's definition of justice.
Gilbert: Yes, Your Highness.


Dimitri: ...
Byleth: Are you OK?
Dimitri: No... I cannot say that I am. Tell me, Professor... How well do you remember your father, Jeralt?
Byleth: Not very well.
Dimitri: I figured as much. Even the memory of those who pass away is taken from those they left behind. Little by little. Year by year.
Byleth: Very well.
Dimitri: Soon enough you will come to understand how painful it is to forget the faces of those who have passed on.
Dimitri: To be honest, I cannot really remember my stepmother's...that woman's smile. Nor the sound of her voice. I always told myself that I would not allow my mind to forget. And yet...all I can recall with clarity is her gazing away, so forlorn. Did my stepmother wish to go home so badly that she would kill Father and me...kill her false family? Home...to her own blood. Her true family.
Byleth: There's no way to know for sure.
Byleth: I don't have those answers.
Dimitri: I suppose it doesn't make any difference now. I am asking you questions you could not possibly know the answer to. I am finished with thoughts like that. I am finally able to go on living without clinging to hate. If I truly treasure those who have died, then I must earnestly atone for my sins. Father, Glenn, all of the soldiers who have fallen... The people of Duscur who still suffer persecution... The only atonement I can offer them now is to take responsibility for this broken Kingdom that has been entrusted to me.
Byleth: That's true.
Byleth: Take responsibility for the Kingdom...
Dimitri: That is why I feel that I must meet with Edelgard and try to talk to her. Do you think it's a fool's errand? Honestly... I think so too. But I must swallow my feelings and grudges–our whole history, really–and ask her about this future that she sees. What she aims for once her domination is complete. What kind of justice she clings to as she fights. And why she felt it necessary to start this war... I believe that asking her these things is the true responsibility I have been tasked with as king.
Byleth: How will you accomplish this?
Dimitri: We will march our troops to the Imperial capital. But before any battle begins, we will set up camp nearby and send a messenger. I will tell her that I need to speak with her in a safe place, without any weapons or troops. As to whether or not she will agree to my request... Well, that rests solely on Edelgard.
Byleth: I'm certain she'll agree.
Dimitri: I would like to believe that as well. You know, Professor... When we fought in Fhirdiad, Cornelia mocked me and called me pitiful. But even if it is true that my stepmother never loved me, I am not to be pitied. After all, I have allies and dear friends who care for me. And now, I also have you by my side.

@Conversation 
Dimitri: Our next battlefield will be the Imperial capital. There will be no turning back. If you have any unfinished business here, you had best settle it before we depart.
Byleth: There's not enough time.
Dimitri: I apologize, but you'll have to make do with the time you have. We cannot afford a delay.
Byleth: Leave it to me.
Dimitri: I knew I could count on you. Good luck.



Dedue: I believe in you, but please ensure that his Highness survives as well. Fódlan's future would be in peril if we lost him. I would not be able to go on.
Byleth: Leave it to me. 
Dedue: Thank you,
Byleth: I understand.
Dedue: Good.



Felix: He intends to speak to the emperor? She's his stepsister, I know, but this seems risky.
Byleth: It's important.
Felix: Pah! I know that!
Byleth: You're against it? 
Felix: No, I'm not. I'm sure he's thought it through.
Felix: If the two can settle this diplomatically, that would be the best way out of this mess. No more bloodshed. Let's just hope he doesn't become so overwhelmed with emotion that he's unable to strike her down... should the need arise.



Ashe: Returning to the monastery brings back so many memories from five years ago. Hard to believe we only spent a year together here. So much happened that it felt a lot longer than that. But it was so exciting. And so much fun. Honestly, I think those memories are what's kept me fighting this long. What was that year like for you, Professor?
Byleth: It was a lot of fun. 
Ashe: I don't think I could ask for a better answer.
Byleth: It was challenging.
Ashe: Ah...yeah, there were a lot of hard times too.
Ashe: Let's all do our best to survive this, so we can come back here when it's all over. I know that's what I'll be doing.



Sylvain: I've been thinking about how we've got our own ideas about justice...and so does the Empire. And what's coming, it's not just a battle between us and them. It's our ideals that are fighting. Whoever wins will say they were right and the other side was wrong. And I get it. That's how it goes... But nobody's willing to talk or compromise, so we'll fight to the death to prove the other guy's wrong. It won't be an easy battle, but let's make sure we come back alive. Right, Professor?



Mercedes: We'll be heading for the capital soon. So much rests on this moment. Will the war really be over if we take the capital?
Byleth: It might not end right away.
Mercedes: You're probably right...but we'll get there eventually.
Byleth: Definitely.
Mercedes: Yay! I'm sure it won't end right away, but that's still great news!
Mercedes: I truly believe that a peaceful future is waiting at the end of all this.



Annette: I hope this is the final battle. Don't you, Professor? When the war is over, everyone will be busy with their own lives... But let's all meet up again someday. Right here at Garreg Mach. You, His Highness, my father, our monastery friends, the knights...everyone!
Byleth: That's a great idea. 
Annette: It was just a silly whim I had, but I really love it!
Byleth: I wonder if that's possible...
Annette: All that matters is whether we choose to make it happen. I really hope that we do!
Annette: Ooh, and I'll bake a bunch of desserts for it! Reunion sweets! All we have to do now is win! Let's get to it, Professor!



Ingrid: I'm so glad you were assigned to the Blue Lion House, Professor. We made it this far thanks to your guidance and leadership. There's a bitter fight ahead - that much is certain. You have my lance.
Byleth: We're counting on you. 
Byleth: We will prevail!
Ingrid: Yes. Let's do this together!



Ferdinand: Professor. At last, the end is nigh. I love the Empire. Part of me wants it to survive. But I know that is not reasonable. The Empire's time has come. The Kingdom is battle-scarred, the Alliance is in tatters... People must be terrified. The world is crumbling around them. What we need now is a mighty leader who can rebuild Fódlan and rule it as a single nation. Nonetheless, it saddens me that we will not have an Adrestian emperor...



Linhardt: When you think of it, as one approaches the end of a war, the sacrifices only grow larger, don't they? The winning side musters their forces and attempts to strike a decisive blow... While those of the losing side make desperate attempts to turn the war in their favor. Neither side will give. I only wish we'd consider those who lose their lives in that struggle.
Byleth: We're far from being safe ourselves. 
Linhardt: Yes, exactly my point. Let's be careful to ensure we don't lose our lives, Professor.
Byleth: It's a necessary sacrifice.
Linhardt: Perhaps, but that doesn't make it any easier to accept your own survival depends on a throw of the dice.
Byleth: It's better than dragging the war out.
Linhardt: I can appreciate that, but just because a choice is better does not mean that it's good.



Caspar: It's such a relief that we've made it this far without having to fight my father.
Byleth: You'll have to face him at some point.
Caspar: Are you trying to scare me? What if he turns up while we're charging the capital?!
Byleth: It sounds like you're scared. 
Caspar: You bet I'm scared! The Imperial army hasn't lost a single battle with my father on the field!
Caspar: But still, I wonder what'll happen to him if we win...

Bernadetta: Professor! My, um, mother might be in the city. I don't have many good memories of her if I'm being honest, but she's dearer to me than my father, If you happen to see her, please make sure she's not caught up in all the fighting. She's only a civil servant, so hopefully she takes a cue from her Bernie and stays inside.



Dorothea: I keep thinking the war is near its end, then it isn't... When can we finally put this dreadful war behind us?
Byleth: Let's end it with the next battle.
Dorothea: That would be wonderful. Imagine, the last moment of combat...then peace. It sounds like a fairy tale. I want to make this a world where there is no fighting, where children can grow up happy and safe.
Byleth: There can be no end to war. 
Dorothea: I suppose you're right... But we should still try to make the world a place where children can grow up happy and safe.



Petra: Five years ago... Edelgard said a thing to me. Brigid is a vassal of the Empire. But she also said I always have the freedom to be choosing whether I am with or not with her. I will become the ruler of Brigid. So she said I must make my own path. So now, my path and her path will be colliding.



Lorenz: At last we've come to the final confrontation! Ruin to the Empire! Glory to Faerghus! Of course, to be perfectly honest, I would have much preferred to march against the Empire at the head of the Alliance. But I suppose I have Claude to thank for denying me that satisfaction, don't I?



Raphael: We're heading up to Enbarr next. I hope I make it back safe so I can tell my little sis about it! I hear they got a neat opera house there where Manuela used to perform. What was it called again?

Byleth: Mitreflanc Opera Company
Raphael: Nah, that doesn't sound right!
Byleth: Mittelfrank Opera Company 
Raphael: Ah, that's the one!
Byleth: Mildewplank Opera Company
Raphael: Nah, that doesn't sound right!
Raphael: My little sis always goes on about how much she'd like to see them perform. I know we can't see a show, but do you think we could at least see the building?



Ignatz: We're about to put the finishing touches on this war. I wonder how Fódlan will look without the backdrop of death and destruction. I can't wait to see it! On the other hand, I'm terrified of what the future might hold. Who knows if I'll survive the assault on the capital?



Lysithea: Wanting so desperately to speak with Edelgard just as we're about to fight... Could it be that the prince is having doubts about killing her.
Byleth: I don't think so.
Lysithea: Then perhaps it is okay.
Byleth: It's only a formality. 
Lysithea: I suppose they're the only ones who fully understand the extent of their relationship.
Lysithea: He's certainly changed from the vengeful person he once was. I don't mean that in a bad way. I'm actually relieved. A king who's responsible for Fódlan's future can't exact personal vendettas and have a cold heart.



Marianne: Dear Goddess...
Byleth: Praying again?
Marianne: Yes... I was praying for your safety.
Byleth: What are you praying for? 
Marianne: Um...for your safety.
Marianne: I'll do all I can to survive, but please...please don't die out there Professor.



Hilda: Fighting in the capital! Ugh! And we're fighting against Edelgard! Double ugh! But with you leading us, Professor, I know we'll win. Yeah! Wahoo! Fighting! I'm a little scared, to be honest. I'm just shouting to relieve the tension, but I'll be fine.



Leonie: At last, it's time to face the Flame Emperor... Edelgard. I know that the future of all Fódlan rests on this battle. Nothing else is more important. But for me, this is personal. For Captain Jeralt's sake, I'm going to give it all I've got and more!



Seteth: Rhea will be somewhere in the city. I wonder if she can sense us coming. The battle will soon be upon us. Let us both be at our best for what is to come.



Flayn: I was born in Enbarr. My mother and father met in the church there. Not too long after, I was brought into the world. I do not understand how war can happen in such a precious place. It is most regrettable.



Hanneman: Enbarr's streets are paved with unhappy memories, Professor. I've avoided the damned place since I abandoned my nobility. Swore never to return. Now here we are. To return in this manner... Well, I can't say it is something I ever imagined. Especially as I'm returning to end the Empire. What a strange feeling, breaking one's history.



Manuela: Life can be tough, you know? But if you've got your friends to help you through, it can be a lot easier. Maybe you butt heads sometimes...but that's OK. That's how you build bonds, right? And I've got friends, Professor. Plenty of those. It's true love that seems to have passed me by.
Byleth: You should relax.
Manuela: Relax? I'm relaxed.
Byleth: There's still hope. 
Manuela: But where is my true love to be found? Where is my ray of hope?
Byleth: Time to give up?
Manuela: Yeah... I'm starting to figure that's the most realistic option.
Manuela: At this point, I'm just hoping you stay single too. Then at least we can share each other's misery!



Gilbert: It matters not how just our cause may be. In the end, war is nothing more than organized murder. I understand the desire to reach a conclusion, but we mustn't overlook the sins inherent in our deeds.
Byleth: I am well aware. 
Byleth: I understand, of course.
Gilbert: Heh, sorry, I have a tendency to preach. We have lost so much, and in return, we have taken much from our enemies. I pray we can put an end to this cycle of violence.



Alois: Here we are, facing the final battle with the Empire. It's been a long, difficult struggle. We have to get Lady Rhea back! And we have to crush the Empire, in the name of Captain Jeralt. He's watching over us now, protecting us. I know he is.



Catherine: Looks like we're nearing the end of this struggle. I'm sure Lady Rhea is on tenterhooks waiting for me to swoop in and rescue her.
Byleth: Probably. 
Catherine:  I was just kidding! Pay me no mind.
Byleth: I doubt it.
Catherine: Oof... You don't mince your words. Try being a bit more mindful of other people's feelings.
Catherine: Lady Rhea is not waiting for me, I know, no matter how much I might wish she were. She's waiting for you.



Shamir: Ten years ago, Dagda and Brigid attacked the Empire from the west. Their final target was the capital. But they were countered at a port town, long before they reached their destination. We spent a lot of time going back and forth, but at least we made it this far.



Cyril: Whenever I think about how we'll be seeing Lady Rhea real soon, I get happy and really get cleaning! We'll get there for sure, right? We'll see her again?
Byleth: We'll meet her for sure. 
Byleth: We don't know for sure.
Cyril: I just gotta believe Lady Rhea is waiting for us in the capital... We just have to find her.



Anna: Seems like the war is gonna end soon. Once the dust settles, it'll be back to rolling in fat stacks of gold for me!

Gatekeeper: Greetings, Professor! Nothing to report! Momentum's really picking up for this final battle, huh? Even I'm starting to feel tense! Me! Enbarr's history goes back 1,400 years. That even predates the founding of the Empire. It's one of the sacred sites of the Seiros faith, so it's a pretty big deal. But hey, no need to worry about the monastery while you're fighting the final battle. I've got it covered! I'll defend it to my last!

@Intro 
Dimitri: Professor. Do you think Edelgard will show up?
Byleth: She will.
???: Well, well. It's been a long time, Professor. And hello to you, too, Dimitri.
Byleth: I doubt it.
???: Sorry to disappoint you, Professor.

Dimitri: Edelgard. I did not think you would actually accept my request.
Edelgard: Call it a whim. Well then? What did you want to talk about?
Dimitri: I will get straight to the point. Why did you start this war? There had to be a way to change things in your territory without the need for so many senseless casualties.
Edelgard: It may be hard to believe, but this is the way that leads to the fewest casualties in the end. Don't you see?
Dimitri: How could I? Countless people have already lost their lives in this conflict.
Edelgard: The longer we took to revolt, the more victims this crooked world would have claimed. I weighed the victims of war against the victims of the world as it is now, and I chose the former. I believe that I have chosen the best path, the only path.
Dimitri: Even after seeing the faces of those who have suffered the ravages of war, you would still force them to throw their lives away for the future? You are obsessively devoted to this war and deaf to the screams of its victims. You cannot change the cycle of the strong dominating the weak with a method like that.
Edelgard: You're wrong. That very cycle is exactly what I have devoted my life and my power to destroying. If after all of this you believe the weak will still be weak, that is only because they are too used to relying on others instead of on themselves.
Dimitri: Yes. Perhaps someone as strong as you are can claim something like that. But you cannot force that belief onto others. People aren't as strong as you think they are. There are those who cannot live without their faith...and those who cannot go on once they have lost their reason for living. Your path will not be able to save them. It is the path of the strong, and so, it could only benefit the strong.
Edelgard: Heh, so you consider me strong, do you? Even if one clings to their faith, the goddess will never answer them. Countless souls will be lost that way. Living without purpose. And I can be counted among those who have died that way as well. But that's why I must change this world, on behalf of the silent and weak!
Dimitri: And do you intend to become a goddess yourself? Will you steal the power to take action from the broken-hearted masses you claim to defend? The ones who can truly change the way of the world are not the rulers, but the people. Pushing your own sense of justice and your own ideals onto even one other person is no more than self-righteousness.
Edelgard: Maybe it is self-righteousness, but it doesn't matter. Someone has to take action and put a stop to this world's endless, blood-stained misery!
Dimitri: Do you not believe in the power of people to join together and rise up? Humans are weak creatures. But they are also creatures who help each other, support each other, and together, find the right path. I have learned that humans are capable of all that from the professor...and from everyone in my life.
Edelgard: I doubt a highborn person like yourself could know how the poor feel or what motivates them.
Edelgard: This is nonsense. Thought, I'm finally starting to understand how you feel. But that makes it even clearer to me that we can never fully understand each other.
Dimitri: I feel the same. I finally understand...what you believe is right.
Edelgard: Good-bye, Dimitri.
Dimitri: Wait, Edelgard. There is something I must give you.

Dimitri: This is for you. Use it to cut a path to the future you wish for. And I will rise up to meet you there...El.
Edelgard: ...

@Flashback
Dimitri: El! So it's true... You're really going away? Going back home?
Edelgard: There's nothing I can do about it. It's all happening so fast... I'm as surprised as you are.
Dimitri: El... Um... Here. I want you to have this.
Dimitri: El, listen to me. No matter how hard things get, you can't give in, OK? You've got to cut a path to the future you wish for, no matter what.
Edelgard: It's...a dagger? Why would you give me something like this?
Dimitri: Oh, um... I'm sorry. I couldn't think of anything better to give you.
Lord Arundel: Edelgard! What are you doing? It's time to go. Hurry and get in the carriage.
Edelgard: Oh! I... I'm sorry, Uncle! I have to go now... Good-bye, Dimitri.

@Intro
Edelgard: I...I remember now. You gave me a dagger, all those years ago.
Dimitri: Heh, I'm still sorry about that. I should have given you something that would've made you happier.
Edelgard: Perhaps. At the time, I was quite flustered by such a dangerous gift. I left without giving you a proper response...and that was the last time we saw each other.
Dimitri: True. It is a sweet memory with a bitter ending.
Edelgard: I'm afraid it will do no good to reminisce, Dimitri. That girl you knew back then is gone. As good as dead. But...I'll tell you now what I wasn't able to tell you back then. Thank you. My dear, forgotten friend...because of you, I never lost my heart. As for the future...that will be decided in battle. King of Faerghus. As the emperor, I shall await your arrival in Enbarr.
Dimitri: ...

@Opening 
The Kingdom army, having gathered new troops and significant strength, commences its march towards the Imperial capital of Enbarr. In response to their movements, Emperor Edelgard orders her trusted retainer, Hubert, to the front lines to meet the Kingdom army head-on. The two forces clash in the city streets.

With Fort Merceus conquered, it's time to approach Enbarr, the Imperial Capital. Imperial forces stand ready in the city streets, intending to resist to the bitter end.

@Battle 
Dimitri: The gates to the Imperial capital have been broken. All troops, storm in! The emperor is within reach!
Gilbert: The Imperial troops are dug in across the city. Let's cut through them, and carve a route to the palace.

Hubert: Heh. The Savior King arrives, hands red with blood. Let's give him a royal welcome. Artillery, once the enemy is in range, fire at will. Reinforcements will fly in shortly. Keep your focus and hold steady until they arrive.

Dorothea: Reinforcements should be here soon. Let's draw them in... just like we planned. 
Hubert: Draw them toward the opera house. Reinforcements will be here any moment. 

Manuela: Has it really been so long since I was in that opera house? Couldn't have imagined any of this back then.

Dorothea: The battle is nearing the opera house. I hope everyone in the company is safe.

Flayn: That church... It looks familiar. I believe that is where my parents first met.

Seteth: Ah—that church. I've such memories of that place. From a time before I was Seteth...

Thief: War is for the wealthy. We don't even have enough to eat... I'm sure the goddess won't punish us for a little bit of thievery here and there...

Dimitri: More reinforcements, eh? And this time it looks like a fair number... It would be best if we could take them down from a safe distance... Is there any way we could neutralize the cannons or catapults?

@Boss 
Dorothea: The battle is nearing the opera house. I hope everyone in the company is safe.

Dorothea: Oh, that face brings back some memories. It's a shame we don't have time to catch up.

%Manuela,Dorothea
Dorothea: Manuela? It's not like you to show up anywhere sober. What's the occasion?
Manuela: I thought maybe we could talk. I could help you see the error of your ways. Or we could just try to kill each other over what we believe in. You ready to do this?
Dorothea: No... But let's get to it.

%Byleth,Dorothea
Dorothea: If it's our destiny to kill each other, then I cannot–will not–respect the goddess. My only request is that if you win, you'll at least have the decency to kill me quickly.

@Boss
Dorothea: Edelgard, forgive me... I can't...
Hubert: So, Dorothea has been defeated. We will need to thin their numbers as well, or else. If House Varley's troops arrive in time, we may be able to flank the Kingdom's army...

Hubert: So, they've stopped our reinforcements. We will need to thin their numbers as well, or else. If House Varley's troops arrive in time, we may be able to flank the Kingdom's army...

Petra: For Adrestia and for Brigid! I will be defeating all of you!

%Byleth,Petra
Petra: Professor... I have been thinking. About why I came to Fódlan. To the Empire. I am here to be protecting Edelgard...and to be stopping you.

%Shamir,Petra
Shamir: I cannot bring myself to kill you... You're a princess of Brigid. A hostage of the Empire.
Petra: That was the truth in the past, but it is a different truth now, Shamir... I am... the will of the emperor!
Shamir: In that case, I won't hold back.

@Boss
Petra: Edelgard... I will not be keeping my promise... Give me forgiveness, please...

Hubert: It's almost a shame to kill you. Not even death will make you consequential.

%Byleth,Hubert
Hubert: I should have disposed of you a long time ago. I will rectify that failure here!

%Ferdinand,Hubert
Hubert: Running into you in the capital like this-I have to say it's almost sentimental.
Ferdinand: Hubert. She must leave.
Hubert: You really think you can make her?
Ferdinand: It does not matter what I think. Those are my orders.

%Dimitri,Hubert
Dimitri: Hubert. I would tell you to get out of my way, but I highly doubt that you would abide.
Hubert: Heh. Your silver tongue will do you no good here. This is not your path to tread.
Dimitri: That is not your decision to make, nor is it mine. All I can do is blaze ahead!

@End 
Hubert: We must place our faith...in Her Majesty... Her victory is everything...
Dimitri: It's over... The way to the palace is clear. Let's move!

Dimitri: Send your platoons to capture Enbarr! There is to be no needless killing or pillaging, understand?
Kingdom General: Yes, Your Highness!

Dimitri: Edelgard awaits us. We will advance our main forces straight to the palace.
Byleth: We've finally made it here.
Byleth: We can win this.
Dimitri: Yes, it has truly been a long war. And we have only made it this far because of you... Actually, no. I will save that sentiment for after we win this battle. We will advance our troops and confront her. We must strike down the emperor and end this war.
Dedue: My life is yours, Your Highness.
Annette: Let's win this and go back home in victory! I'll do the very best I can!
Ingrid: On my honor as a knight...I will not lose!
Mercedes: I know the goddess is watching over us. Let's be sure to return home safely. All of us.
Ashe: As a citizen of Faerghus, I will fight with everything I have!
Sylvain: Heh heh heh, is this what a do-or-die situation looks like? You had best give it your all too, General.
Felix: The path to the emperor is open. Fulfill your duty as our king.

Felix: Go and win. Be the boar you are, and don't you dare look back.
Byleth: Let's go!
Dimitri: Yes. I will... No. We will win this. Together! Everyone! Move out!

Edelgard: The time has nearly come.
Imperial General: Yes, the anomaly should present itself shortly. However...
Edelgard: There's no reason to fret. Besides, it's far too late to second guess. Now, assume your position. I can't promise your safety if you remain here.
Imperial General: Very well. 

Edelgard: Ugh... This pain is nothing...compared to what I have already suffered...@Opening 
It is Imperial Year 1185. Nearly five years have passed since the fall of the monastery at Garreg Mach, and war continues to plague the lands of Fódlan. Fhirdiad has been captured. The Holy Kingdom of Faerghus is in shambles. The Leicester Alliance is on the verge of collapse, fractured by two opposing factions–those who support the Adrestian Empire and its ruler, and those who seek her demise. Meanwhile, under Emperor Edelgard's rule of law, the Adrestian Empire continues to expand its reach. The path to a new Fódlan, unified by Imperial strength, may yet be in sight.

@Dialogue
???: You… How long do you intend to sleep? Your body is awake. Your eyes must open now, and you must find the strength to stand upon those legs of yours. Like so much rain, a pool of blood has fallen to the ground… As spears and arrows pierce the earth, it weeps. And even now…it weeps. In order to survive, they kill. And so, the people of this world are lost in an abyss of suffering. They weep as well. The only one who truly knows the nature of such things is I… Or rather, you.
Byleth: I'm still sleepy.
???: You are a complete and utter fool! Have you not changed one bit?!
Byleth: Who?
???: Excuse me?! Are you saying you have forgotten who I am? How dare you!
???: Get on your feet. Right now! I'll coddle you no more! You are just like a child, always needing me to hold your hand...


Villager: Hey! A-are you awake?
Byleth: Where am I?
Villager: We’re in a village at the base of the monastery. What are you doing in a place like this?
Byleth: Who are you?
Villager: I’m just a villager here. What are you doing in a place like this?
Villager: I honestly didn’t expect to find someone floating away down the river… Garreg Mach is upstream of here, but that place was abandoned.
Byleth: What do you mean?
Villager: Huh? You don’t know? The Church of Seiros isn’t there anymore. Though there have been some folks still living there in the five years since… Well, you know. Anyway, I’ve heard some thieves have been spotted around those parts these days.
Byleth: Five years.
Byleth: What year is it?
Villager: Um, are you feeling all right? You didn’t hit your head or anything did you? It’s the Ethereal Moon of the year 1185. It’s been nearly five years since the monastery fell. Tomorrow was supposed to be the millennium festival, but who’s got time to think about things like that?
Byleth: The millennium festival...
Villager: Uh, yeah, that’s what I said. But with the war and the archbishop still missing and all… I doubt there’s a soul to be found who has enough blessings worth counting. Hey! Slow down, will ya? Where do you think you’re going?
Byleth: The monastery.
Villager: Are you crazy?! I told ya! They say thieves are running amok up there, and there’s plenty of other dangers too. I heard a rumor that Imperial troops went up there to investigate and got slaughtered. Every last one! Come on, I promise I won’t say you’re a coward. Just forget about going anywhere near the monastery.

Villager: You just remember I tried to stop you, got it? It’s not on my conscience if you wind up dead!
Byleth: My students are waiting for me.
Villager: Students? You really are crazy, aren’t you? There aren’t any kids anywhere near that place anymore! Unbelievable…
Byleth: No need to worry about me.
Villager: Unbelievable…

@Cutscene 
Dimitri: I should have known...that one day...you would be haunting me as well.

@Dialogue 
Dimitri: You... What must I do to be rid of you? I will kill that woman, I swear it. Do not look upon me with scorn in your eyes!
Byleth: What are you talking about?
Byleth: Everything will be OK.
Dimitri: ... You... It can't be! You're alive?! Hmph. If that is the case... That can only mean you are another Imperial spy. Did you come here to kill me? Answer the question.
Byleth: Of course not.
Dimitri: Ungh...
Byleth: I'm glad you're safe.
Dimitri: Am I?

@Intro 
Dimitri: ...
Byleth: What have you been doing the last five years?
Dimitri: I have been dead, more or less.
Byleth: Why do you say that?
Dimitri: What do you hope to gain, asking me that? There are more important matters at hand...
Byleth: ...
Dimitri: Do you not smell them? Filthy rats. Everywhere. And traces of those who were here long ago. And thieves, crawling from the woodwork, attracted by the promise of treasure. Heh… Since the monastery fell, order in the area fell right along with it. You must have seen the state of the town near Garreg Mach on your way here. Vile thieves run rampant. They pillage and loot to their heart’s content. I must kill them. Every last one. It’s time to hunt down their nest.
Byleth: What do you plan to do?
Dimitri: I told you. I will kill them all.
Byleth: Even thieves are just trying to survive...
Dimitri: It doesn't matter what their reasons are.
Byleth: We don't have to kill them to stop them.
Dimitri: They must die.
Dimitri: Someone must put a stop to this cycle of the strong trampling the weak. Or do you condone their actions? Do you believe that the pillaging and slaughtering those rats live for is justified?! It is reprehensible, and they must be put down! I intend to give them a taste of the pain they have inflicted on others. Even if it means becoming a rat myself. I swore to at least do that much… I will not let them down…
Byleth: How many thieves are there?
Byleth: Can just the two of us hope to prevail?
Dimitri: It doesn't matter. All that matters is killing those who deserve to die.

Gilbert: Good work. I should have known to check the monastery. Let's move, quickly!
Kingdom soldier: Yes, sir!
Gilbert: Dimitri... I'm on my way.

@Opening 
In the Holy Kingdom of Faerghus, Imperialist loyalist Cornelia has subdued all regions of the former royal house of Blaiddyd to prevent further revolt. Prince Dimitri has been sentenced. Now, the backbone of the former Kingdom–Houses Gautier and Fraldarius–struggle to continue the resistance. Cornelia–operating out of the royal palace–has accepted the support of the Empire to build an army and plots to wipe out all remaining Kingdom forces.

In the Leicester Alliance, House Riegan leads an anti-Imperial faction, while House Gloucester directs the Empire’s supporters. Despite the undeniable threat of fracture, the Alliance’s adept new leader, Claude, deftly maintains the outward appearance of a unified front.

In Enbarr, the Imperial Capital of the Adrestian Empire, Emperor Edelgard fights to strengthen her regime. She has extended her reach to the Kingdom by inciting a coup and continues to draw its former lords under her influence in pursuit of controlling all of western Fódlan.

In the meantime, the Knights of Seiros have been dispatched to find Archbishop Rhea, who remains missing despite their searching. Left unattended, the monastery at Garreg Mach has fallen to ruin…and become a haven for thieves.

@Battle 
Dimitri: It smells of blood and sewage. Seems I've found their nest.
Pallardó: What the... Intruders! Protect the goods!

Dimitri: Shall we go rat hunting? Don't let a single vermin escape!

Gilbert: His Highness! And... Professor? We must speak later.
Ashe: I know it's been five years, but I never expected the monastery to end up like this.
Mercedes: Oh! I haven't seen any of you in such a long time! I'm so glad to see you're alive.
Annette: We'll help out from here! It's over, thieves!
Dimitri: Why... Why are you here?

Sylvain: The monastery has become a nest of thieves.
Ingrid: Professor! You're alive after all! But first things first–let's defeat these thieves.
Felix: I'll lend a hand. We'll catch up later.
Dimitri: Listen up. We must end this quickly.

Dimitri: There are openings to the north and south. We'll split into two and tear them apart.


@Battle-Talk 
%Byleth,Ashe
Ashe: We promised five years ago we'd meet here and now!

%Byleth,Mercedes
Mercedes: Getting to see you and everyone else again makes having to leave my family feel less difficult.

%Byleth,Annette
Annette: Long time no see, Professor! I always knew in my heart that we'd meet again!

%Byleth,Sylvain 
#avatar-M
Sylvain: Where have you been the last five years? I was worried about you, and then I was just sad.

#avatar-F
Sylvain: Professor! Has it really been five years? You're as pretty as ever, and that's the only thing that matters.

@Battle-Talk 
%Byleth,Ingrid
Ingrid: I'm glad we could meet again, Professor. It'll be nice to fight alongside each other. Just like old times.

%Byleth,Felix
Felix: Fancy meeting you here. A welcome surprise.

@Boss
Pallardó: No! I'm not the one you want! Gah! I guess I've got no choice.

Pallardó: Ah, you should yield me a tidy profit!

Pallardó: I have no longer any reason to be here. Good-bye and be well!
Dimitri: Damn it, we failed to kill him...

Pallardó: I thought it would be easy money... Maybe it wasn't...meant to be...
Dimitri: ...

%Dimitri,Pallardó
Pallardó: It isn't looking good for us. Should we retreat?
Dimitri: You didn't plan on letting him get away, did you?

@End 
Ingrid: Your Highness! Professor! I'm so glad you're both safe...
Dimitri: Why are you here?
Ashe: Did you forget? We all made a promise here on this very day five years ago.
Mercedes: Dimitri, weren't you the one who asked that we all meet up here?
Annette: Don't be silly! Of course you remember our promise. That's why you and the professor are here, right?
Gilbert: Your Highness... I have been following news of your whereabouts for a while now. I am relieved to have finally found you.
Dimitri: Do not call me that. I am not a prince, but a walking corpse.
Byleth: Why would you say that?
Gilbert: That is what we all believed, but it is not so. I can see with my own eyes that you are alive, Your Highness. But the jail cells in Fhirdiad are as solid as they come. How did you manage to…
Dimitri: Dedue.
Byleth: What happened?
Dimitri: He's dead. He died in my place.
Gilbert: I see. We will be sure to honor his loyalty, Your Highness. As for the state of the Kingdom, the lords from the western regions have declared their fealty to the Empire, starting with House Rowe. Cornelia’s band of traitors now refers to Kingdom territory as the Faerghus Dukedom. They’ve made Fhirdiad their stronghold as they continue to invade the eastern region.
Byleth: Traitors?
Gilbert: There is much to tell you. I will explain everything in time.
Byleth: Cornelia?
Gilbert: She is a mage who has served in the royal family for more than 20 years. There is much to tell you. I will explain everything in time.
Sylvain: Well, it’s not like all of the Kingdom’s lords have sided with the Empire. There are plenty of houses, like mine and Felix’s, that remain stubbornly opposed.
Gilbert: Your Highness. Please allow us to take up arms at your side once more. What we need more than anything isn’t soldiers, money or supplies. We need the legitimate heir of Faerghus to overthrow the Empire and reclaim the Kingdom! Such is your duty. It is yours alone to bear and well worth fighting for. Only you can gather our troops and lead us back into the light.
Byleth: You are still needed, Dimitri.
Dimitri: I see. So, you all agree that we must fight back. And you see how that woman…how the Empire cannot be forgiven. That we must wipe them all out until not a single one of them remains…
Annette: Wipe them all out? Umm, I don’t think any of us here are suggesting anything that extreme…
Gilbert: … Professor… There is something I would like to ask you. Please join me inside the monastery.

Gilbert: To think you survived under all that rubble for the past five years... I suppose stranger things have happened, odd as that is to admit. There is still much I would like to ask you... But I think that's enough for now.
Byleth: Is Rhea safe?
Byleth: Where are the Knights of Seiros?
Gilbert: On that day five years ago, during the battle with the Imperial army, Lady Rhea went missing. Since then, the Knights of Seiros have continued searching for her…and for you. I hear they have yet to find any promising leads. As the Empire has yet to release a statement, it’s hard to imagine that she has perished. And yet… Ah, never mind. Once news of your survival gets out, everyone will flock back to the monastery.
Byleth: What happened to the Kingdom?
Gilbert: After that battle, a certain...incident took place in Fhirdiad. Rufus, who was serving as king regent, was murdered. I was once a knight in service of the royal family… I resigned from the Knights of Seiros, and returned to serve the Kingdom. However…


Gilbert: This is madness! You truly claim that His Highness is the one who killed Rufus?
Cornelia: Oh, but it’s true. The only one who could slip past the bodyguards and kill so efficiently is the young prince. You can’t deny it.
Gilbert: Rufus is Prince Dimitri’s uncle! His Highness is incapable of such an atrocious crime as murdering his own blood!
Cornelia: Ah, but they were never very close, were they? It’s a well-known fact amongst former retainers. There are even rumors that Rufus was originally involved in the Tragedy of Duscur… Perhaps His Highness believed those rumors and murdered Rufus in a fit of rage. But I’m afraid none of that matters now.
Gilbert: Cornelia. Do not tell me that you...
Cornelia: The decision has been made. His Highness will pay for his crime with his head. His sentence will be carried out the day after tomorrow. On that day, the royal bloodline will come to an end. All you have left to do is sit back and watch, you senile old fool. Watch as the Kingdom you love falls to ashes.

Gilbert: It was soon after announced that his sentence had been carried out. With His Highness’s death, the royal bloodline of House Blaiddyd was erased from this world. True to her word, all we could do was watch as she tore the Kingdom apart before our eyes. Since the execution and the prince’s corpse were concealed from the public, there have always been those who believed His Highness was still alive… As for myself, I only began to hope three years ago, when I chanced upon some compelling rumors…
Byleth: What rumors?
Gilbert: An Imperial platoon attacked without warning. Incident after incident of Imperial generals being slaughtered in Kingdom territory. It is said that each died in such a brutal, gruesome way that…it is hard to imagine they were killed by human hands. 
Gilbert: I followed the rumors to location after location. Eventually, I had seen enough. I knew the rumors were true. Finally, after a half decade of torment, it happened. I found him… 
Gilbert: I fear his deep hatred, and the weight of his solitude, have consumed him for far too long… We must bring him back from the edge on which he stands. 
Gilbert: To that end, I must speak with His Highness. I imagine it will not be a quick or easy conversation. I pray that he is of a mind to speak of such things. I am certain that my words will… Never mind. What must be done, must be done. I would wager that you are weary after the day’s events. Perhaps you should take this opportunity to get some rest.@Opening 
When Claude steps down as its leader, the Leicester Alliance disbands and its lords swear fealty to the Holy Kingdom of Faerghus. The chaos in the Kingdom begins to dissipate as the people unite under Dimitri's rule. Riding this momentum, the Kingdom army prepares to march south for a decisive battle against Imperial forces.

@Dialogue 
Dimitri: We will finally have our decisive battle with the Empire this month.
Gilbert: The eastern lords are in the process of consolidating all of the troops within the entire Kingdom.
Gilbert: In addition, ever since Arianrhod's liberation, the western lords have been declaring their fealty one after another.
Ashe: Affairs within the Kingdom have calmed down considerably, and we even managed to win over the Alliance.
Annette: Although it was a rough go at first, I'm starting to feel like we could actually win this!
Mercedes: That's true! Thinking back on it now, we've really come a long way.
Seteth: We even have a lead to where Rhea is located. It is as we predicted all along. If we are to rescue Rhea, then we must defeat the emperor...
Ashe: Um, if we're going to march from the monastery to Enbarr, then we'll have to cross the Great Bridge of Myrddin again, right?
Dimitri: Yes, I believe so. As we have gained the Alliance's support, we should not have any trouble this time. After the bridge, we can head across Gronder Field and head south. And then we'll take Merceus, the so-called impregnable fortress that towers on the other side.
Byleth: An impregnable fortress?
Ashe: Fort Merceus... I know of it. They say it rivals even Arianrhod.
Gilbert:  Fort Merceus is praised as the strongest defense in the Empire. 
Gilbert: Count Bergliez, the Empire's minister of military affairs, once had troops stationed there. But according to our spies, a large scale force has entered the stronghold. Perhaps they are gathering soldiers from various regions to compensate for their losses.
Byleth: Should we try to avoid it?
Dimitri: If we try to avoid it, those troops will follow us and attack from the rear. It is best for us to handle the situation head-on.
Byleth: Can we really prevail?
Dimitri: It is unlike you to worry so. But I feel we have no choice but to strip that place of its impregnable reputation.
Dimitri: Once we take Fort Merceus, Enbarr will be within reach. This is the Empire's last chance to stop us from arriving at our goal.
Sylvain: In other words, if we take this fort, then our blades will at the emperor's throat in no time.
Ashe: If this is the last fort between us and them, then the emperor will likely do everything she can to strengthen its defenses.
Dimitri: I just received a report on that very subject. The one commanding the troops stationed at Fort Merceus is someone we have crossed blades with many times. It is the Death Knight who awaits us there.
Mercedes: Oh... So that's who we'll be battling... Emile...

@Conversation 
Dimitri: From this point onward, we're in all-out war with the Empire. Are you prepared, Professor?
Byleth: I am.
Dimitri: I am glad to hear it. That means we can approach the coming battles with peace of mind.
Byleth: Are you?
Dimitri: I have already steeled myself as best I can.
Dimitri: First we capture Fort Merceus. The fighting will be undoubtedly be brutal, but... we must prevail. As far as this army and I are concerned, you're our last ray of hope. We are relying on you.



Dedue: Claude has stepped down from leadership, and Leicester is now a vassal state of Faerghus. The lords of the western Kingdom are beginning to declare fealty to us in greater numbers also. The Empire is our only remaining enemy.



Felix: We defeated Lord Arundel. The emperor must have been surprised. If we can keep up that fervor, perhaps we'll capture Fort Merceus, and move on to the Imperial capital. We must not be overconfident though.
Byleth: We're going to win
Felix: You're optimistic.
Byleth: Let's proceed with caution. 
Felix: Yes, I concur.
Felix: Human and beasts are ultimately the same. When they're cornered, they lash out however they can. They fight for their lives. Who knows how the emperor will lash out? We have to be careful.



Ashe: I wonder where Claude will go. From the sound of it, he's leaving Fódlan altogether. He was strangely gallant about the whole thing. Even left his Relic behind. Elusive and mysterious to the end, isn't he?



Sylvain: Ya know Professor, laying a siege to a keep is like asking a girl out on a date. First, you get past her defenses...then you make your move.
Byleth: That's not the best analogy.
Sylvain: Trust me, I know what I'm talking about. I'm a seasoned veteran at this kind of thing. Girls, I mean. I've never actually, you know, captured any keeps...
Byleth: You might be right. 
Sylvain: See? You get it. Our fearless leader on the other hand... He's never been good with the ladies.
Sylvain: Anyway, I figure you go after the main gate. You take that out and I'm sure we can win. Of course, you're making the tactical calls. I'm happier to follow than to lead.



Mercedes: Death Knight... Going to fight the Death Knight...
Byleth: You seem concerned. 
Mercedes: Hmm... To be perfectly honest, I am...
Byleth: You'll be fine if you prepare yourself.
Mercedes: You're right. I'll have to face him eventually.



Annette: Oh, Professor! Good timing. You have to talk some sense into my father! Recently he's been doing nothing but work himself to the bone. Even when he's taking breaks from training and errands, he's apparently listening to reports. Day in and day out. He's getting on in years, you know? I just want him to take care of himself...



Ingrid: Just as we suspected, Lady Rhea was taken to the Imperial capital. We must get to the capital as quickly as possible. So many people are worried sick about her... I do wonder when Claude managed to learn Lady Rhea's whereabouts. He's pretty shrewd. I can't help but admire him.



Ferdinand: The majority is with us. This conflict will end soon. I am so moved by the decision that Claude and the Alliance nobles have made. That is true nobility! Acting in accordance with the people's needs and wishes. As war drags on, those living near the front lines inevitably get the worse of it. Still...Edelgard will not give in. She will push to complete her mission, no matter how many people die. Not everyone with noble blood has noble ideals.



Linhardt: Attacking an impregnable fortress head-on is rather impressive... or suicidal. Depends on the day really. You know Fort Merceus's nickname, I assume. The Stubborn Old General? It may be stubborn, but its age means it's got to be hiding a few weak spots. Makes sense to aim for those areas.



Caspar: Fort Merceus is next, huh? Ah, the memories. It's a huge stronghold in my father's domain. The town's completely surrounded by high walls. I used to run around there when I was a kid... Way back when the fortress was just a playground for me. Yeah, those were the days.

Bernadetta: I love a good fortress - the perfect place to hide! This one's impregnable too, isn't it? Perfect! As soon as we take it, I'll set up a special spot for Bernie!
Byleth: If we can take it, it's not impregnable.
Bernadetta: I guess you have a point. What would you call it, then? A little pregnable?
Byleth: It's too big to make a good hiding place. 
Bernadetta: Now that you mention it, I guess it is pretty huge.,,



Dorothea: The Leicester Alliance is no more. Three hundred years of history...gone and done. They write operas about events like this, you know.

Dorothea: I'm sure they'll have a talented and beautiful songstress playing you. And with Dimitri at your side... Well, they'll probably contrive some kind of romance to keep things interesting.

Dorothea: Dimitri will be played by the most handsome actor of the time. Hearts will pound as he takes the stage. What am I saying? Surely the most handsome man would play you.



Petra: I have excitement in my heart for secret tactics! I enjoy attacks that are surprising. I thought we could be using attacks like that at this fortress. But I am hearing a different thing. A brute force attack with all of our power, yes? Attacks that are surprising are also safer. Attacking from the front has... is dangerous. But I will give you all of my fighting spirit, Professor.



Lorenz: It appears that Claude has dissolved the Alliance. He's thrown away the pride of all the Leicester lords who have walked the path of independence from Faerghus for generations! I said from the start that he was not suitable to lead!
Byleth: Uh-huh... 
Byleth: But even you...
Lorenz: ... 
Lorenz: Well, times have changed, haven't they? I suppose we can trust the Kingdom now.



Raphael: Wake up, eat, train, eat, train, eat, sleep. We gotta prepare for the assault, but that hasn't changed my routine!
Byleth: You're doing plenty. 
Byleth: Can't you do more?
Raphael: All the training...and eating...I do is for the sake of Fódlan! Gotta stay strong...and fed...to keep it safe!



Ignatz: My family made it through the conflict unscathed. Thank the goddess! It seems that Derdriu was the only place to really get caught up in the fighting. Did Claude intend to spare the Alliance territories from harm? If so, he's a truly admirable leader. Speaking of Claude, I wonder where he is?



Lysithea: Something about Lord Arundel rubbed me the wrong way. There was something off about him. Not that I've ever heard anything good about him. Have you ever heard of the Hrym family?
Byleth: From the Alliance?
Lysithea: No, they're an Imperial house. Their territory is south of Ordelia's.
Byleth: From the Empire? 
Lysithea: Correct. Their lands are due south of the Ordelia territory.
Byleth: From the Kingdom?
Lysithea: No, they're an Imperial house. Their territory is south of Ordelia's.
Lysithea: Since Edelgard's rule, Lord Arundel has been governing the territory. It seems like his reign was particularly cruel. The people there suffered greatly under him. He seemed to be a good and just person at one point. It simply doesn't make sense.



Marianne: Now that the Alliance has been dissolved, what will become of the nobility?
Byleth: I'm not sure.
Byleth: Are you worried? 
Marianne: No, my adoptive father knows how to get by. I'm sure he'll do well for himself in the Kingdom.
Marianne: All of Fódlan is going to change... I suppose I'll have to change with it.



Hilda: The Alliance dissolved so suddenly. Now there's widespread pandemonium! The lords are warring! Mass confusion among the citizens! Or... that's what I expected to happen. None of that seems to be taking place. They had a roundtable meeting and talked it out. Everyone's dealing very calmly with the situation. I guess if Dimitri turns out to be a crazed despot, then there really will be chaos. But he's not going to go crazy again. He's OK now... Right?



Leonie: The Death Knight is guarding Fort Merceus. The same one who was linked to Monica and to Flayn's abduction five years ago. Anyway, he's one of the monsters responsible for Captain Jeralt's death. We have to defeat him!



Seteth: Fort Merceus is a keep that was constructed to defend the Imperial Capital, Enbarr. We cannot enter the capital without first capturing that fort. But once we have it, the city should be almost entirely at our mercy. Now that we know Rhea is there, we must move with the utmost urgency.



Flayn: The Death Knight. I shudder to think of him. Professor, you remember my connection to him, do you not?
Byleth: Of course. 
Byleth: Uh, what happened?
Flayn: What! You have forgotten about when I was kidnapped five years ago?!
Flayn: I am still working on the trauma from back then, all these years later. If we meet him, I swear I will have my revenge.



Hanneman: Fort Merceus is the Empire's single most fortified military installation. Utterly impregnable, they say. I wonder, do you happen to know the nickname given to Fort Merceus?
Byleth: The Silver Maiden
Hanneman: No, I'm afraid that name refers to the Fortress City of Arianrhod.
Byleth: Fódlan's Locket
Hanneman: That one is a fortress that stands at Fódlan's Throat.
Byleth: The Stubborn Old General 
Hanneman: Indeed! A very good answer, but of course you'd know that.
Hanneman: Seems Fódlans give everyone and everything a nickname. Why, you were called the Ashen Demon! Myself, I have been called the Father of Crestology, which is a nickname as well as a title, I suppose...



Manuela: Each step closer to Enbarr, I'm reminded of another part of my past. Riches and poverty, glory and failure, that city has it all! And if I'm honest... sometimes I miss it. That's how the past works though, isn't it? It's always a different story than what you really lived.



Gilbert: Even in the Kingdom, only a few people knew about His Higness and Edelgard's relationship. Me? I always knew those two to be like brother and sister. To think that we would come to see this world, where they are at war with one another... I live it, and I can still barely imagine such a truth.



Alois: So, Lady Rhea was in the Empire all this time. Wish I'd known that five years ago, but there's nothing we can do about it now. What we can do though is topple the Empire! Will you seize victory with us, Professor? For the sake of the late captain!



Catherine: We took quite the detour. It was time-consuming, but finally we got the information we needed. We crush the Empire, we get Lady Rhea back. Two birds, one stone. First, we take Fort Merceus. I'll put my heart in it. I'll crack 'em like a rusty helmet.



Shamir: Weren't the Kingdom and Alliance once part of the same country? If you think about it that way, it makes sense for them to unite. I suppose the Kingdom was once part of the Empire as well. Even if Fódlan came together, I wouldn't be surprised if it fell apart again



Cyril: Is it true Lady Rhea was taken to the Empire? Why'd they take Lady Rhea? Professor... they didn't take her to kill her, did they?
Byleth: I don't think so.
Cyril: That's good. We just gotta beat the Imperial army and get her back, right?
Byleth: They probably haven't killed her. 
Cyril: Yeah, good point. If they did, we'd have heard about it by now.
Cyril: You gotta help her Professor. I'm begging ya.



Gatekeeper: Greetings, Professor! Nothing to report! Is it true that we'll be assaulting Fort Merceus next? That doesn't sound like the brightest idea... I've heard that it's built to withstand an attack from even the largest of armies! Not to tell you how to do your job, but don't do it! I'm not ready to say my final good-byes to everyone...

@Opening 
The Kingdom army crosses the Great Bridge of Myrddin a second time, moving south through Gronder Field. However, in order to reach Enbarr, they must first seize the impregnable Fort Merceus.

@Intro 
Dimitri: Fort Merceus... said to rival Arianrhod, the Silver Maiden. Perhaps a head-on siege was a foolish plan, after all.
Gilbert: No, you're right that it's the only way. I don't think the Death Knight would have fallen for any tricks. Even if they are denied supplies, they could hold a fortress like this for months. And we cannot discount the possibility that they will receive more reinforcements if our siege is delayed.
Dimitri: Yes, my thoughts exactly. Then we have no option but to do the best we can. Say, Professor... In the past, it seemed the Death Knight took some strange satisfaction from his fights with you. He's an unpredictable opponent. A dangerous one. Please proceed with caution.
Byleth: No need to worry.
Dimitri: I have not come this far just to lose you here. I'm serious. Do not be reckless out there.
Byleth: Will you save me if I'm in trouble?
Dimitri: Of course. You were the heart of the Blue Lions, and the same holds true for the Kingdom Army.

Dimitri: Mercedes...
Mercedes: So, the Death Knight really is inside that fortress. Dear Emile...
Dimitri: I want you to know that no one is forcing you to battle with us at the front lines. I support whatever you decide.
Mercedes: Please, stop. We can't have you saying that. You and I are the same after all. We both have to fight our family for the good of the world... And since that's the way it is, I couldn't live with myself if I was the only running away from this battle. I will bring Emile back to his senses. I must. I'm his big sister, after all.
Dimitri: Understood. Stay safe out there, Mercedes.

Death Knight:  That man approaches...
Imperial Solider: Report! The main gate has been breached!
Linhardt:  Ugh... How did I get tangled up in all of this...
Death Knight: You are finally here... Will death's scythe claim you... Or will I fall to that sword of yours... And Mercedes... Here you are as well...

@Opening 
After saving the embattled Alliance, you march south to Empire territory. Fort Merceus, said to be impregnable, stands between you and Enbarr, the Imperial Capital.

@Battle 
Death Knight: They broke through the main gate... Trample them. All save... that man...
Dimitri: Even though we smashed the main gate, Fort Merceus is still an ironclad fortress. And the enemy commander is the Death Knight. We must not falter in our assault!

Dimitri: I now see why they call this keep impregnable. Everywhere you turn is defensive weaponry. We must capture all of those locations as we push forward. If even one of them takes a shot at you, we will be in trouble.

Death Knight: Fools. Push forward and surround them...

Gilbert: Worrisome. They have a leader capable of summoning reinforcements. If we find and strike down that person, we can prevent further interruptions.

Gilbert: There will be no further reinforcements from this side. However, the other side is still in action.
Dimitri: If they call in more reinforcements, we'll be in great danger. We must take down the other commander as well and fast.

Dimitri: Good. Now we should not have to worry about any more reinforcements crashing the party.

@Boss 
Caspar: Did you have to kill a lot of your friends to get here? Cause I'm gonna give this fight everything I've got!

%Byleth,Caspar
Caspar: It's way over my head, and I don't really get what's going on between you and Edelgard. I thought for sure you two would come to an understanding, but I guess I was wrong.

%Linhardt,Caspar
Caspar: Looks like we ended up on opposing sides, Linhardt!
Linhardt: Certainly seems that way. I could almost weep over how things turned out. Do you realize, Caspar, that this is the first time we've ever fought?
Caspar: Yeah, I think you're right. The first and probably the last!

@Boss
Caspar: Don't worry about me... I always knew... losing meant death...

Linhardt: I'd rather not fight, yet avoiding it is more frustrating and fruitless than engaging in the battle itself.

Linhardt: Ever since returning to the Empire, I knew this day would arrive. I just hoped it might take a bit longer. Ugh...

Linhardt: I hope someday there will be no fighting and we can all just... nap the afternoon away...

Death Knight: I have no need of you.

%Byleth,Death Knight
Death Knight: You're stronger now. Whether I kill you or you kill me, I'm looking forward to this!

%Dimitri,Death Knight
Death Knight: You dare stand between me and my pleasure?
Dimitri: Yes. I dare stand against you, Death Knight.
Death Knight: Death is all that remains...

%Mercedes,Death Knight
Mercedes: I came here to get you. Let's return together... Emile.
Death Knight: Leave... The place of your death is not here...
Mercedes: No! I won't! I... I refuse to run from you anymore!

%Flayn,Death Knight
Flayn: So it's you, Death Knight! Remember me?!
Death Knight: You again. Here to lose more blood?
Flayn: Never! You will not lay a hand on me ever again!

%Seteth,Death Knight
Seteth: You will not escape, Death Knight. Today you will be unmasked!
Death Knight: My true identity has no value.
Seteth: I will be the judge of that, once I've seen your face.

@Boss
Death Knight: To kill, to die... To know one without the other would be maddening...

@End 
Dimitri: The enemy general has been vanquished! Everyone,move to gain control of the keep! Victory is ours! Raise the banner of the knights. May it soar proudly over the impregnable fortress!
Mercedes:  Oh! I have to meet... I have to meet Emile!

^locked
Mercedes: Emile... I'm so sorry... This is all my fault for leaving you behind when I left House Bartels. I should have gone back for you sooner...
Jeritza: Argh...
Mercedes: I'm sorry for not being a better sister to you.
Jeritza: Mer...cedes...
Mercedes: Please forgive me, Emile...
Annette: Mercie, we need to go. Now.
Mercedes: ...Good-bye...
^end

Gilbert: Your Highness, our capture of the fortress is complete.
Dimitri: Now the path to the Imperial Capital is finally opened to us. Once we've finished cleaning up after the battle, let's have another meeting to discuss our next move.
Byleth: We should have a victory celebration.
Dimitri: It would be one thing if we were at home or at the monastery, but to waste our resources like that here would be most-
Byleth: Aren't you overworking yourself?
Dimitri: Naturally. But it matters not. Consider this... Once this war is over, the mountain of official business on my plate will be even taller. If I can't handle at least this much, how will I-
Kingdom Soldier: Pardon the interruption! We've just received a letter from Margrave Gautier.
Dimitri: Very well. I will read it at once.
Dimitri: I see... It seems the conflict within Faerghus has at last come to an end.
Kingdom Soldier: Yes, Your Highness! The Margrave and the other eastern lords are at the center of it, and are gathering the Kingdom's military forces even now, They intend to join with the Alliance army and send troops and supplies to the monastery.
Sylvain: Whaddaya know... My old man is really pulling his weight. Did he seem well?
Kingdom Soldier: Yes, as well as can be expected. He has taken it upon himself to bring order back to our troubled territory while His Highness is away.
Dimitri: I am truly in the Margrave's debt. I will be sure to thank him properly at first opportunity. Thank you for the information. Now tell me, did it seem to you that my presence was needed back at the monastery?
Kingdom Soldier: Well... I do have a verbal message from the Margrave on the subject.
Dimitri: A verbal message? How strange...
Kingdom Soldier: The other day, he arrested one of Viscount Kleiman's men. And, well... The prisoner has claimed involvement in the Tragedy of Duscur. He has implicated his lord as well.
Dimitri: Go on.
Kingdom Soldier: I was told they would be transporting this man to the monastery along with the troops and supplies. The Margrave said that regardless of the credibility of the man's testimony, how he should be dealt with was your decision alone, Your Highness.
Dimitri: Very well. All things considered, I will return to the monastery at once. Will you come with me Professor?  Thank you.@Opening 
After storming the streets of Enbarr and bringing Imperial forces to their knees, the Kingdom army surrounds the Imperial palace. But the enemy that awaits them is not the Edelgard they once knew...

@Intro 
Dimitri: We have annihilated Enbarr's army. If we strike her down now, this war will finally be over. I imagine she intends to keep fighting until the bitter end...If this is the end she has chosen, it is my responsibility to see it through with her. Isn't that so...emperor of Adrestia? We have no choice but to destroy each other...Such is the destiny we were born to. That is why...I will now rise up to answer her iron will with the bite of my lance.
Dedue: I will protect you at all costs. We will both live to see tomorrow...Your Majesty.
Felix: Hmph. If the king falls here, that would mean my father's and brother's deaths were in vain.
Ashe: For Lonato, Christophe, everyone...I will not lose!
Sylvain: Well, if I were to die now, I'd have a lot to explain to my brother.
Mercedes: All will be OK. I know we can win!
Annette: I won't falter, no matter who we're facing!
Ingrid: For all those who have lost their lives in this war...We cannot lose!
Byleth: Let's win this!
Dimitri: It is time. Onward, to our final battle!

Hegemon Edelgard: They are here...But my progress cannot be stopped, no matter how many people try. The war's end will spell destruction for one of us. There can only be one ruler of the world...

@Battle 
Dimitri: Edelgard must be in the throne room...I would love nothing more than charge in and settle this once and for all, but we must be mindful of the surrounding forces.
Ingrid: Strange...The mages don't seem to be wearing their usual imperial uniforms.
Gilbert: Look at the mages. They are not wearing their standard Imperial uniforms...
Myson: We cannot allow our grand ambition to be stopped by these beasts...

Dimitri: Gah! Where did that attack come from?! If we do not find out, we have no chance of avoiding it!
Mercedes: We're in danger! Advance with caution!
Dimitri: Everyone, stay on your guard!

Dimitri: I can hear voices from the lower levels...Could it be enemy reinforcements?
Ashe: Maybe if we take control of those stairwells now, we can prevent reinforcements.
Gilbert: Avoid losses by taking control of the stairwells! Block the enemy reinforcements!

Dimitri: So...that grotesque creature was Edelgard...If she is prepared to transform her very body to fight for this future of hers... Then I have no choice but to defeat her, even if it costs me my life! We must defend the present... After all, it is all that we truly have.

Dimitri: Reinforcements from the lower levels... Will they ever stop coming?
Sylvain: General, calm down! Get control of the stairwells. Cut off the enemy's entry point.

@Boss 
Myson: We will return this world to mortal hands...May that filthy race of beasts wither and die...

Myson: A curse upon those damned beasts...
Mysterious Soldier: Myson! Everyone, retreat! We cannot sacrifice our goal!
Dimitri: The mages are retreating! So, those weren't Imperial mages after all!
Felix: Stop yammering! We must advance, boar!

Hegemon Edelgard: These fools are caught up in the sacrifices at hand and can't see the future ramifications at stake. We must bury them! We must trample the past underfoot and move on to a brighter tomorrow!

Hegemon Edelgard: You shall be obliterated! I will take you out so fast you will not have a chance to lament.

%Byleth,Myson
Myson: I'll take you down, here and now...For the sake of the new dawn...

%Byleth,Hegemon Edelgard
Hegemon Edelgard: Facing you... I grow weak...

%Dimitri,Hegemon Edelgard
Dimitri: To be changed beyond all recognition.. That is what lies at the end of the ideals you served so diligently. I have no pity for one such as you. If that is the future you hoped for, then you deserve no compassion.

@End 
Hegemon Edelgard: Graghhhhh!
Dimitri: Edelgard...It is over.

@Cutscene 
Dimitri: El...

@Narration 
A rising flame was alight as the flow of time carved a new history for Fódlan. The long reign of the Adrestian Empire finally met its end when the Imperial Capital, the city of Enbarr collapsed. After five and a half years of war, a new age was set to begin. With Fódlan united as the Holy Kingdom of Faerghus, Archbishop Rhea, still weak from her imprisonment, stepped down from her position, and the Church of Seiros began to take the needed steps to reorganize. Prince Dimitri formally ascended the throne, beginning his reign as the king of the Holy Kingdom of Faerghus, which now included former Alliance and Imperial territories. Texts from the time claimed that the one who guided the king as he sought to create a world free from oppression became the new archbishop of the Church of Seiros.@Opening 
Having repelled the Imperial vanguard, the Kingdom must now supplement its meager forces. And so it requests reinforcements from Rodrigue, who is busy resisting Cornelia's army in Fraldarius territory.

@Dialogue 
Dimitri: You made it.
Felix: We received a reply from my father. You should read it too.

Rodrigue: Gilbert has filled me in on the details. He tells me you are in immediate need to additional troops. I would like to say that I will gather reinforcements and send them to the monastery at once... However, I cannot afford to leave the front lines for that long. Would you be willing to meet us south of Fraldarius territory in Ailell, the Valley of Torment? Ailell is halfway between the monastery and our territory. There, I will deliver the soldiers you require.

Byleth: The Valley of Torment...
Gilbert: Ailell lies on the border between Kingdom territory and Alliance territory. Humans dare not approach that place.
Dimitri: He's right. In Ailell, we can meet up with them without our enemy ever finding out.
Felix: Once my old man delivers his soldiers to us, then our war against the Empire can finally begin.
Gilbert: The path ahead will be a difficult one, Your Highness. Deadly, in all likelihood...
Dimitri: True. But what's the point in wavering now? Father, Stepmother, Glenn, and even Dedue... I am certain this will bring them great joy. I know if I can just offer them Edelgard's head... I just know it...

Kingdom Solider: Ailell, the Valley of Torment...

@Conversation 
Dimitri: Go away.



Felix: Hmph. I am steeling myself to see my father again. I can't stand that old man.
Byleth: But he's your father.
Felix: That's just biological circumstance. We may have the same blood, but we've nothing else in common.
Byleth: You really hate him. 
Felix: Yes, I do. Above all, I hate the crazed nonsense that comes out of his mouth.



Ashe: The Kingdom capital or the Imperial capital? I don't know which is the right way. If we tried to take on the Empire like this, would we really stand a chance? With House Fraldarius under attack, they probably can't spare many soldiers. On the other hand, if we did manage to take the Imperial capital, the war would be over. Hmm... I'm no good at thinking through this kind of complicated stuff.



Sylvain: Ailell, the Valley of Torment. Aw, man... I really do not want to go there.
Byleth: Pull yourself together.
Sylvain: Professor, have you ever been to Ailell? If you had, you'd know.
Byleth: Why not?  
Sylvain: That place is crazy hot! For guys like me who grew up somewhere cold? Man... It's gonna be rough. Though, I guess that climate will keep our enemies at bay.



Mercedes: I don't know about everyone else, but heading to the Empire seems like a good idea to me. The search for Lady Rhea will be so much easier if we can just get the Empire out of the way. I suppose Dimitri might still pose a problem though. He seems so fixated on the Imperial capital, but... I get the feeling he's not even sure what he wants anymore.



Annette: If we can take back the Kingdom, we'll recover our soldiers. And some food and supplies too, I bet. Most importantly of all, there are people in the Kingdom waiting for our help. Even His Highness understands that. I'm sure of it. Yet he wants to take on the Empire despite all that... Do you think...he just doesn't care about anything other than fighting Edelgard anymore?
Byleth: That's not true.
Annette: But if not, then why...
Byleth: You may be right.
Annette: He wasn't always like this. What happened...



Ingrid: It is imperative that we regroup with those who continue to resist. Most importantly, we must join up with the Fraldarius family. If we do, our ability to reclaim the Kingdom capital is ensured. We should aim for this outcome rather than focusing our efforts on the Imperial capital. This seems to me the best strategy at present. But I feel what His Highness feels--his hatred, his anger--so keenly, as if it were my own. So I find it difficult to oppose his wishes.



Ferdinand: Some day we will take the Imperial capital. It is odd to think that I will be invading the very city that I once called home. Ah, that is still a ways off. I will prepare for our journey to Ailell.



Linhardt: I never do get used to the sight of blood. It always makes me feel as if I might faint. I suppose I've told you that though, yes? I've no idea how you cope with it. I hope this war ends soon. I dislike being lightheaded because other people are bleeding everywhere. Though the thought of working hard for it does sound like quite a pain...



Caspar: We weren't related by blood, but Randolph was still my uncle... Seeing him end up that way was... Never mind. It's nothing.
Byleth: That's how it goes with war. 
Caspar: This wasn't just about war. It was a grudge. Or are you gonna tell me you're on Dimitri's side?
Byleth: I'm so sorry. 
Caspar: It's fine. I don't need your sympathy. It's not like I had any real connection with him anyway. But Dimitri's methods... I don't know...
Caspar: I'm sure he never trusted me, being born in the Empire and all.

Bernadetta: Ailell, the Valley of Torment? What kind of a name for a place is that? It sounds scary. Do I really have to go with you? Hey, um, here's an idea... Maybe let the recluse stay home and hold the fort!



Dorothea: This is all a bit troubling, isn't it? The people from the Kingdom seem to be of two minds, as well. Can we really plan to fight when we're this unsure of ourselves?
Byleth: Maybe fighting will actually help... 
Dorothea: You think once we're face to face with the enemy, it might help us band together? I hope so.
Byleth: It's hard to say.
Dorothea: Well, Professor, I hope you can bring everyone together. You might be the only person who can.



Petra: Since the past, I have learned much of the language of Fódlan. But speaking the Fódlan language still gives me difficulty. I can understand, read, and write with nearly perfection now. But understanding and speaking are...fruits of a different color.
Byleth: That's part of your charm. 
Petra: I have gratitude for you, Professor. I hope that I will have fluency one day.
Byleth: Everyone has a weak spot.
Petra: Yes. I will keep practicing more.



Raphael: Ugh...so...hungry... I won't be able to train if I don't get some food in me! I used to eat until I was full, but nowadays I can't even get seconds! Aren't reinforcements supposed to be joining us soon? I hope they bring food along with them... I still want my little sis to live in the town here, but there's no point if we can't even feed her!



Ignatz: The Valley of Torment... I'd heard of it, but I never expected to go there. It's exciting! I wonder what the landscape is like.
Byleth: It sounds dangerous.
Ignatz: It probably is dangerous, but I still want to get there and see it as soon as I can.
Byleth: It sounds painful. 
Ignatz: Hm, that is an interesting point... The name does seem to suggest that.



Lysithea: Ailell, the Valley of Torment, lies on the border of three noble territories. The Kingdom's Fraldarius and Galatea families, and the Alliance's Daphnel family. Incidentally, the Galatea family was originally an offshoot from the Daphnel family.



Marianne: Valley of Torment... Valley of Torment...
Byleth: Something wrong? 
Marianne: I once read a book full of legends surrounding Ailell, but I can't seem to remember...
Byleth: Are you chanting some sort of curse?
Marianne: N-no... I'm trying to remember the legends surrounding Ailell...
Marianne: I feel there is something dreadful I'm forgetting.



Hilda: I heard we're headed to the Valley of Torment. I'm not exactly thrilled. That place is supposed to be really, really hot. Just the thought of it makes me uncomfortable.
Byleth: You don't like hot climates? 
Hilda: I hate them! You get all sweaty and sticky and eugh!
Byleth: You want to stay here?
Hilda: Ooh, that's not a bad idea! Though if our enemies attacked while I was here, that would be a pain too...
Hilda: Ugh! Who names a place Valley of Torment? A more inviting name would have been nice. Valley of Endless Summer, something like that!



Leonie: You're not a teacher anymore, and we're not your students, but everyone still calls you Professor. Is there something you'd rather be called?
Byleth: Professor is fine.
Leonie: Guess that's what we're used to, huh? All right.
Byleth: Call me by my name. 
Leonie: Oh? All right, then. I'll call you--ugh. Nope! Sorry, can't do it. Too weird.



Seteth: Meeting reinforcements in the Valley of Torment seems an astute decision to me. In that land of oppressive heat, it is unlikely that we will be disturbed. It also means we will need to contend with those harsh conditions ourselves, however. Best ensure we are well prepared.



Flayn: It has been only five years, yet so much has changed. Half of the Kingdom has fallen to the Empire. Skirmishes are rife throughout the Alliance. Despite such tumult, we look upon the same sky, unchanged by the storm happening beneath it.
Byleth: Do you wish you could return to those days?
Flayn: Yes, it would be nice, I suppose. Things were...simpler then. Or so they seemed to be, at the time.
Byleth: It's true--it's just like it was all those years ago. 
Flayn: Indeed. I gazed up at this same sky with Mother and Father. It does not feel so long ago at all. Wait, but how would you know, Professor?



Hanneman: The monastery repairs have made solid progress. Most excellent news. When we first returned here, I was unsure what we were going to do with the ruins of this place... But if we can get the cathedral rebuilt, we'll have it looking just like old times soon enough.



Manuela: Gilbert was a knight to the royal family of Faergus? What was a man like that doing in Garreg Mach, I wonder? Who knows. Whenever I try to ask about it, he'd change the subject and avoid giving a proper answer.



Gilbert: These past five years, Lord Rodrigue worried for His Highness more than any other. But I wonder what he would say if he saw what has become of Dimitri...



Alois: The Kingdom doesn't seem to have clear goals holding them together. Different people have different priorities. The situation right now is difficult. But at times like this, you have the opportunity to really shine, eh Professor? You're in charge. Show them what you're made of! I'll do what I can to help.



Catherine: Strategically speaking, our best move is probably to head for the Kingdom capital. Though, I think it's more likely that Lady Rhea is in the Empire, so I would not object to taking the fight directly to Edelgard. Hm. There are no right or wrong answers in war. What do you think we should do? I hope, with the goddess's guidance, we can make the right choice.



Shamir: There are enemy spies around. Remain vigilant. Capture anyone who seems suspicious.
Byleth: To kill them?
Shamir: What else would we do with them?
Byleth: All right, I will. 
Shamir: I'm glad you understand. I'm counting on you.



Cyril: Gotta clean out the storerooms, tend the flowers, do the washing, dust the library...
Byleth: That sounds like a lot of work.
Cyril: Well, it's my job, ya know? Gotta do your job.
Byleth: Do you need any help? 
Cyril: Nah, this is my job. Lady Rhea herself gave it to me. Even if Lady Rhea's not here right now, I still gotta do my duty.
Cyril: Like you. You gotta have other stuff you oughta be doing, yeah?



Gatekeeper: Greetings, Professor! Nothing to report! Is everyone setting out on a big campaign? Not exactly? Ah, so you're meeting up with the reinforcements. Well, you can leave guarding this place to me! I'll keep an eye out for anything suspicious!

@Intro 
Gilbert: This valley isn't a place I'd care to return to . . .
Ingrid: After the chilliness of Faerghus, I can't seem to adjust to this extreme heat.
Sylvain: Historically, there have been battles whose outcomes were determined in part by the climate. You can't argue that this heat isn't a factor.
Ingrid: In conditions like these, who knows what will become of our morale . . .
Gilbert: Professor, be honest. How are you holding up?
Byleth: I'm at my limit.
Gilbert: Don't overexert yourself. Perhaps it would be best to take breaks as we proceed.
Byleth: I never imagined it would be like this...
Gilbert: Monks once used this area as an ascetic training ground because of the intense environment.
Gilbert: They say Ailell was born of the goddess's rage...
Byleth: Her rage?
Byleth: I hadn't heard that before.
Gilbert: If you believe the legends, this valley is evidence of the goddess's judgement...passed on humanity for its corruption. The forest that once covered the surrounding area was burnt to ash by a pillar of light that descended from the heavens. That legend fueled belief in a place of torment between our world and the next...where one's sins are purified in the cleansing flames.
Dimitri: Nonsense. Sins are not so easily washed away.
Gilbert: Indeed ... And there are no accounts of such a place in scripture. Yet those who cannot face their own sins have no choice but to cling to the idea.
Dimitri: ...
Mercedes: Ugh, I just don't think I can take this heat anymore. I think I'm starting to see things... Near those mountains over there.... Is it just me, or is there a group of people gathered there?
Gilbert: No... It would seem you are not hallucinating after all.


Dimitri: That is House Rowe's banner. They curried favor with that witch and sold out Faerghus.
Gilbert: We messed up. There must have been a spy among us... Will you have us meet them in battle or wait for Rodrigue to arrive?
Dimitri: There is only one option. How kind of them to save us the trouble of killing them later.
Byleth: Aren't they your former allies?
Dimitri: Never call those traitors our allies again.
Byleth: They sold out the Kingdom, right?
Dimitri: I will not repeat myself.
Dimitri: That banner belongs to the Gray Lion. It's a waste of breath to exchange words with one such as him.
Gilbert: His Highness is correct. He is not an opponent whom we can expect to negotiate with. Everyone! Prepare for the attack!

@Opening 
Your party travels to Ailell, the Valley of Torment, to meet up with allied troops and secure reinforcements. It should have been a safe march...

@Battle 
Gwendal: The Valley of Torment . . . Perhaps a good place to finish off my life as a knight. Only if that puny force of children is able to kill me, of course . . .
Gilbert: That man, who raises the Lion's flag? Lord Gwendal. He is an elder knight who serves House Rowe. Gwendal would, without thought, fight any battle if ordered. There is no chance of negotiating with him.


Gilbert: Ailell is a deadly place. Flames burst from the ground with no warning. Sane people usually avoid it.
Dimitri: So, the flames of torment burn your sins, your life, your everything. If you wish to spare yourself the goddess's wrath, tread lightly.

Kingdom Soldier: Here we go! Attack them from both sides!

Rodrigue: So Cornelia has planted spies even inside Garreg Mach.
Gwendal: The Shield of Faerghus has appeared! We can expect more out of him than the young ones.

@Battle-Talk 
%Byleth,Rodrigue 
Rodrigue: To meet you in a place like this... No, that won't do. I'll leave the talking until after the battle. Here's a small souvenir for you. Put it to good use.

@Boss 
Gwendal: Does a whelp like you really expect to kill me? I am Gwendal, the Gray Lion, a knight by the hand of Count Rowe! Do your worst!

Gwendal: Ah, so I have found a place to die . . . Young ones . . . I thank you . . .

%Dimitri,Gwendal
Dimitri: The man praised as a lion is degraded to a mere traitor's underling.
Gwendal: A traitor's underling? That's upsetting, Your Highness. I am and always have been a knight of House Rowe.
Dimitri: How dare you? You are nothing but a lowly beast scavenging for scraps. You have forgotten the dignity of knighthood.
Gwendal: I may be lowly, but this beast is loyal to his master.
Dimitri: Ha! Then I had better kill a pet and deliver its head to that master . . .

@End 
Rodrigue: It's been too long, Your Highness. But try to temper your joy, will you? This is a war, after all.
Dimitri: To say such a thing at a time like this. You have not changed one bit.
Rodrigue: Don't let looks deceive you. I've had a rough go of it ever since I crossed blades with those traitors in Fhirdiad. When I heard you'd been executed, I rushed there as fast as I could, blind with fury. When I got there, I was fed some garbage about not being able to see your body. The next thing I knew, I was gripping my blade and... Gilbert, you have done well to locate His Highness. I am truly grateful.

Rodrigue: And you... I have you to thank, as well.
Byleth: As his professor, it was my duty.
Byleth: We were all fortunate.
Rodrigue: Well, we are in your debt. I will repay you for this someday, I swear it. And you, Felix... You have also done well to bring His Highness here.
Felix: Hmph.
Dimitri: Tell us all you know, Rodrigue.
Rodrigue: I'm afraid there's not much to tell. You are aware that the western region of the Kingdom was taken by the Empire, correct?
Dimitri: Yes, so I have heard. They are now calling it the Faerghus Dukedom or some nonsense.
Rodrigue: If you know that much, then the rest won't take long. Enemy or not, it's undeniable that Cornelia's plan was nothing short of genius. After seizing power, she invited the Imperial army to Fhirdiad. There, she reorganized her troops and then sent soldiers to hunt me down. Because of that, we were forced to act defensively. And now we're being forced into a difficult battle. She's been controlling the situation all along.
Dimitri: So that's been the witch's plan from the start. I should have killed her ages ago.
Rodrigue: Your Highness... Fhirdiad is in a terrible state right now. The tyranny is unbearable, and so the rebellions are endless. Refugees starve to death in the streets. If I may speak freely, Your Highness... We should change course for Fhirdiad and take down those traitors before we embark to Enbarr.
Dimitri: There's no time for that. We must annihilate Enbarr before all else.
Rodrigue: Think this through. I understand wanting to destroy the Empire and the emperor. I want that so much it hurts. But which is more important, the dead or the living?

Dimitri:  SILENCE.
Rodrigue: No, Dimitri, you will hear me out.
Dimitri: Are you asking me...asking the dead...to forgive that woman?
Rodrigue: No, I would not ask that of you. What I am asking is that you allow us to prioritize the Kingdom capital over the Imperial capital for now. As Lambert's close and trusted friend, I am confident that he would have advised the same.
Dimitri: Do not dare to put words in the mouth of the dead. They are your words alone, even if you borrowed their lips. Until I offer up that woman's head, Father will remain a slave to his lingering regret and hatred... Even now, he suffers. It is ceaseless. As we waste time with idle chatter, his suffering continues!
Rodrigue:  You are my king. Our king. Wherever you lead, we will follow. But Your Highness... There are those who take up their sword in the name of revenge, and yet along the way, lose the strength and composure to follow through... You would do well to bear that in mind.
Dimitri: ...
Rodrigue: Ah, I nearly forgot. Take this, Your Highness. The time has come for it to be wielded by its true master.

Dimitri: Areadbhar... The Hero's Relic once wielded by my father.
Rodrigue: The very same. I managed to steal it back from one of Cornelia's underlings in Fhirdiad.
Felix: Understated as ever, Father. It must have been a true struggle to get it back.
Dimitri: I... I am grateful, my friend.
Rodrigue: Gilbert, Professor. May I request something of you? I wish to fight at your side.
Felix: Senile already, old man? Who will protect our territory?
Rodrigue: I expected it would come to this, so I left those matters to my younger brother. He has my complete faith. I must keep my promise to our fallen king...to my dear friend.
Byleth: What promise?
Rodrigue: A very old one. I swore it nearly 10 years ago. Now then, Your Highness. Let's destroy the Empire together. My men and I will spare no effort. I pray that you are right...and that this will save the Kingdom.

Rodrigue: Our orders are to capture Enbarr by striking the enemy stronghold directly... How familiar are you with the geography of Fódlan?
Byleth: Very familiar.
Rodrigue: Then you must be aware that the Kingdom and the Empire are separated by the impassable Oghma Mountains, right?
Byleth: Not very familiar.
Rodrigue: The Kingdom and the Empire are separated by the impassable Oghma Mountains.
Rodrigue: Legend has it that Saint Seiros once crossed over those mountains to fight against the Fell King Nemesis... But don't fool yourself. Leading an army over such steep mountains would be near impossible.
Gilbert: In order to infiltrate the Empire, we have no choice but to go around the mountains, either to the east or to the west.
Byleth: Let's go east.
Rodrigue: Yes, I agree.
Byleth: Let's go west.
Gilbert: Hmm. I believe that may be difficult. After all, the western region of the Kingdom is already loyal to the Empire. Perhaps we should consider going east...using the route that passes through Alliance territory.
Rodrigue: The Alliance is currently split in two. Those who stand with the Empire and those who are against it. Leading the Imperial faction is House Gloucester, while House Riegan leads those who oppose. We should take advantage of their internal conflict and proceed east along the mountains until we reach the Great Bridge of Myrddin in Alliance territory.
Byleth: Why there?
Gilbert: The Airmid River divides Alliance and Empire territory. There are many large bridges that cross it. However, the Great Bridge of Myrddin is by far the largest, and it is also the closest to the monastery. I believe you crossed that bridge five years ago on your journey to the Battle of the Eagle and Lion.
Byleth: It's risky...
Rodrigue: I'm afraid we have no other option. This is our only hope.
Byleth: What if the Empire and the Alliance both attack?
Gilbert: I'm afraid it's a possibility. But it's still more practical than passing through the west.
Rodrigue: Perhaps our next move should be to contact House Riegan and request their cooperation...
Byleth: Do you think they'll help us?
Rodrigue: Claude of House Riegan is the leader of the Alliance and is firmly against the Empire. They are the enemy of our enemy... In other words, hopefully a friend.
Dimitri: Are you suggesting that we ask House Riegan to engage the Gloucester soldiers?
Gilbert: I am. If we take the bridge, then House Gloucester will no longer be able to receive help from the Empire. There's no way a man as wise as Claude would refuse our request.
Rodrigue: And once we manage to capture the Great Bridge and gain a foothold into the Empire...
Dimitri: Then we cross Gronder Field and head south toward Enbarr.
Ashe: But if we get attacked from both sides, we'll have to fight people from the Alliance, won't we?
Mercedes: Speaking of House Gloucester, I wonder how Lorenz is holding up...
Annette: If we meet him again, it will probably be as enemies. To be honest, I'd rather avoid seeing him altogether.
Dimitri: If you do not wish to kill familiar faces, do not tarry over the corpses of the dead.
Felix: Hmph. Good advice.
Dimitri: Prepare yourselves. It is time to steel your souls for the task at hand.@Opening 
Following the death of Rodrigue, Dimitri begins to question his desire for revenge. His troubled mind turns to the kingdom capital and how he might end the chaos plaguing Faerghus, once and for all.

@Dialogue 
Gilbert: Our victory at Gronder was certainly a turning point for us. However... Rodrigue's death has been difficult to bear. We've lost considerable military strength and resources.
Byleth: Are there no lords we can rely on?
Byleth: Is there no way to secure more soldiers?
Sylvain: Unfortunately, with things as they are now, I don't think House Gautier has any resources to spare.
Ingrid: I'm sorry. I really wish we could help. If only house Galatea had anything to give...
Gilbert: If we split up the soldiers currently defending the monastery, we should have sufficient numbers to invade the Empire. But even then...
Dedue: Your highness! You should be resting. Your wounds are still healing...
Dimitri: I am well, I assure you. More importantly... may I have a moment of your time?

Dimitri: Thank you. I wish to apologize. To all of you. I have led you down this dark path with me, and have cost so much suffering along the way... I cannot tell you how sorry I am for my behavior. There is no apology I could offer that would be sufficient.
Felix: Hmph. And how do you intend to make up for my father's death?
Dimitri: Felix... I realize words alone are not enough to repent, but I fear they are all I have.
Felix: I’m not after more empty words. I want you to speak through your actions.
Dimitri: ... I know that no amount of regret can ever bring back the lives we have lost. I... I know that well. It is like patching up a tear with a different material. Things can never be as they were. The best I can hope for is to make things whole again. I wish to do the right thing from now on. 
Dimitri: That is why I have made a decision... I intend to take back the kingdom capital. I wish to save our people, those who I turned my back on for far too long. To follow my heart and do the right thing... That's the only way I can atone for my sins.
Gilbert: Your highness... If we can win back Fhirdiad, it will give us the advantage in our war against the Empire. As one who has served the royal family for ages, know that your words bring me great joy. And pride. That said, I must point out that if we make for Fhirdiad, the Emperor's head will slip further out of reach. Can you live with that?
Dimitri: I still hold hatred in my heart for her and for the ones responsible for the tragedy... That, I will carry with me until death. 
Dimitri: But... my life is my own. It belongs to no one else, and it is high time that I started living for what I believe in. I will no longer allow the voices of the dead to bind me. This is something that I must do... No. Something that I am choosing to do. I will accomplish my aim, even if it means risking my life to do so.
Gilbert: Understood, your highness. So? Any objections?
Byleth: None.
Byleth: Count me in.
Seteth: You are correct. We cannot afford to die in vain by recklessly challenging the empire.
Mercedes: I'm worried about Lady Rhea... but if this is the choice you've made, I support it.
Dedue: I am at your command, your highness. I will follow you anywhere.
Ashe: My sword is at your service, your highness.
Annette: I'll help too! The people in Fhirdiad need us!
Felix: Fine. I'll help you...in my father's stead. But in return, you must win. You know that, don't you...Dimitri?
Dimitri: I do. And I swear on my father's lance that we will prevail.
Gilbert: Then it is decided. It seems this war council has much to discuss. Our next stop is Fhirdiad, the Kingdom capital. For the future of Faerghus!

@Conversation 
Dimitri: I really caused trouble for you, didn't I... I am so sorry. Truly. I am also...eternally grateful to you. Now, it's time to go to the Kingdom capital. I hope that you will lend me your strength once again.



Dedue: Everyone is saying His Highness is back to his old self, but I do not think that is accurate. What he was until recently is what he had been for as long as I've known him. So tortured by his compassion for the fallen that it had driven him mad. He has always been too kind to be king. He has always felt too much for the weak and the dead. That is exactly why I look up to him.



Felix: He'll need to excel as a leader, if he's to make up for my old man's death. Though if my father could see Dimitri now, he'd be glad to have made the sacrifice. Don't you dare tell anyone I said that.



Ashe: I was born and raised in Faerghus, but I've never actually been to Fhirdiad. Do you think it'll still be cold at this time of year? I can't even imagine.
Byleth: We should prepare for the cold.
Ashe: You're right. It's an important battle, so let's make sure we're ready for anything.
Byleth: Maybe we should ask someone. 
Ashe: Good point. I'll check with His Highness.



Sylvain: I don't feel like I can just forget all the awful stuff he's done... But if His Highness is owning up to his past, and trying to move forward... I figure I can give him that chance. We've been friends since we were kids. I'm gonna be there for him all the way to the end.



Mercedes: I agree that we should head for Fhirdiad, but let's not forget our search for Lady Rhea! The soldiers from the church are going to set up a base at the Great Bridge of Myrddin. They'll be able to keep up the search while we head for the Kingdom capital!



Annette: The Kingdom capital... It's been way too long since I was there last... Oh, Professor! I didn't mean, ah.. It's not that I'm looking forward to it or anything.
Byleth: You don't have to hide it. 
Annette: Ah! Please don't tease me like that!
Byleth: This isn't a vacation.
Annette: I know that! We're preparing for battle!
Annette: It's just... when I think of us finally saving everyone in Fhirdiad, it makes me a little happy. OK, maybe a lot happy. The Kingdom capital is under the tight control of Cornelia, who was ennobled by the Empire. Judging by what we heard from Lord Rodrigue, it sounds like she's a tyrant. But all of that ends soon. Let's get there quickly!



Ingrid: We buried Lord Rodrigue's body ourselves. There wasn't a time to do things properly. It pains me that I was unable to take him home to his territory. Once this war is over, I'd like to hold a proper funeral for him. For now, we need to focus on taking back Fhirdiad. All will be well eventually. I know we can win.

Ferdinand: Dimitri hated the Empire with a fiery passion. At Gronder, driven by fury, he sent many good knights to their doom... Now he appears to be freed from that hatred. If he can make thoughtful decisions, unswayed by his emotions, he may make a fine king someday.
Byleth: Kings are only human.
Ferdinand: No, they are not. A king must strive to be a king first and a human second.
Byleth: Kings can't have feelings? 
Ferdinand: No, they cannot. Kingly judgment has to be wholly separate from the emotions of the individual.



Linhardt: There are stories of Heroes' relics a thousand years ago of which we have no real evidence today. So many, in fact, that I'm led to wonder if those Relics are nothing more than legends. Especially since we know of relics like those passed down in the families of the 10 Fódlan Elites.



Caspar: Can you believe it, Professor? Dimitri actually apologized to me! Remember that awful business between him and my uncle Randoph? He just came by and said he was sorry for all of that. That was behind us so far as I was concerned, but even so... It seem like he's changed for the better.

Bernadetta: It's always so peaceful coming back here. But it's hard to relax knowing we have to go out on another expedition again so soon. And now we're headed to the Kingdom? That sounds hard! Oh, really hard! Don't you think?!
Byleth: It's going to be tough. 
Bernadetta: I knew you'd think so! I knew you— Ow! Oh ow. Can't believe I tried to hug you through the door...
Byleth: We'll be fine.
Bernadetta: Of course you'd say that! Why'd I even ask?!



Dorothea: So many people died in the battle at Gronder... And here we are, preparing for the next battle, as if nothing happened the day before. It's almost easier to think of war as theater, with the stage an entire continent.
Byleth: Though the actors die, the show goes on? 
Dorothea: Something like that. If an accident happens on stage, the next day's performance must unaffected.
Byleth: It really doesn't seem like theater.
Dorothea: Even if an accident happens on stage, the next day you have to sing as though nothing happened.
Dorothea: Everyone just pretends like everything is fine... focusing on their role in the play.



Petra: Taking back the land of home has the most importance. That is why I am fighting...all for my land of home. Actually, there is more... I am also fighting for you and for everyone here.



Lorenz: It seems we will soon set food in Fhirdiad. I used to live there, you know. Though that was before my time in the Officers Academy.
Byleth: Were you a hostage?
Lorenz: No, of course not. There is a school of magic there, which I was enrolled in for a time.
Byleth: Were you a traveler? 
Lorenz: That's right I was enrolled at the school of magic there for a time.
Lorenz: Trouble within the Kingdom forced me to return to Alliance lands. There was much I had yet to learn.



Raphael: You know when you work your muscles and they start screaming? That means you gotta be nice to them. If your muscles are hungry, you gotta feed them, and let them rest when they're tired.
Byleth: I don't see how you'd do that.
Raphael: Whaddya mean, how? You just gotta eat and sleep! It's pretty obvious...
Byleth: You can tell how your muscles are feeling? 
Raphael: Of course! If my muscles hurt, then I hurt. If they're hungry, well then I'm hungry too!
Raphael: What's with the confused face, Professor? You look like you don't get a word I'm saying!



Ignatz: The battle at Gronder Field was gruesome, wasn't it? But perhaps it's irresponsible to look away—to close our eyes to the horrors of war.
Byleth: I agree.
Ignatz: As survivors, we must ensure that all these lives were not lost in vain. We must see the tragic foundations upon which we'll build our future.
Byleth: You don't have to force yourself.
Ignatz: Thank you. But I think I do actually. As survivors, we must ensure that all these lives were not lost in vain. We must see the tragic foundations upon which we'll build our future.
Ignatz: May an age of peace rise from the ashes, so that all this sacrifice means something.



Lysithea: I'm relieved the the prince seems to have finally come to his senses. Though it's a really shame that Lord Rodrigue passed away. It really is. But now I think we're starting to see a sliver of hope for the future of Fódlan.



Marianne: I never used to care whether I lived or died... But after seeing so much death firsthand, I now realize how precious life truly is. I'm ashamed of how arrogant I was to think that death could mean so little...



Hilda: Fhirdiad huh? I've always wanted to go there. But I rather be visiting for fun, and during a warmer season. And going into battle? Not exactly an appealing prospect! Heh, I'm just teasing. I'll do what I can to help. I'm just so relieved that Dimitri is his old self again.



Leonie: Dimitri's completely changed. Or maybe I should say he's finally back to normal. Either way, I'm glad he's come around to the idea of retaking Fhirdiad. With our current troops, there's no way we could handle the Imperial capital. We wouldn't even get past Fort Merceus.



Seteth: It seems we are headed for the Kingdom capital this month. The Church of Seiros stands ready to lend its aid to you and Dimitri. It may be a roundabout route, but I believe this path will still eventually take us to Rhea. Besides—saving the people of Faerghus is just what she would want us to do.



Flayn: Standing face to face with those whom I went to school with. On the field of battle... How inhuman is—how horrifying. My heart feels shattered. It is my hope that this war marks the end of such foolish behavior.s



Hanneman: There's a school of sorcery in Fhirdiad, which is staffed by the top minds of magical research. The study of Crests and sorcery should not be separate. I've always thought I should pay them a visit someday. I never imagined I might end up invading the place with an army though. Not how I imagined it at all.



Manuela: Fighting with three different groups in the mix was as confusing as it was difficult to survive. Enemies and allies dying one of top of the other... What an absolute mess, huh? If only I had my infirmary out in Gronder, maybe I could have saved a few more lives.

Gilbert: I am very grateful to you. I could never have achieved this on my own. This is all thanks to you and Lord Rodrigue. This month, we will invade Fhirdiad by way of the Fraldarius domain. Leave the negotiations with House Fraldarius to me. You make ready for the actual battle. It is a tricky business, but we are taking our first steps forward.



Alois: The emperor was wounded at Gronder Field. What do you think is going on in the Empire now? The Leicester Alliance has really suffered a blow as well. Who knows what will become of them? From now on, we have to pay close attention to how the rest of Fódlan is doing.



Catherine: If we're headed to the Kingdom capital, that means we're further away from rescuing Lady Rhea. But it can't be helped, can it? Perhaps some people will question this decision, but I trust your judgement. Lady Rhea would want us to help in Fhirdiad. She'd scold us if we rescued her and left innocent people suffering.



Shamir: So we're turning around and heading for the Kingdom capital? Ridiculous. Tell him to cease this nonsense. Isn't there a saying in Fódlan. Something those with power knowing how to use it? If he's not careful, the goddess will send her saints to smite him. Not that I believe that...



Cyril: Guess what I noticed. I can see further than most other people can see. But I can't see figure the point of seeing further than an arrow can fly, since I can't shoot what I see.
Byleth: You could detect enemy movements in advance.
Cyril: I suppose I could see a whole horde of enemies coming and run away. That's kinda useful, at least.
Byleth: You could find our targets quicker than anyone. 
Cyril: Yeah, I suppose it could be real useful for finding Lady Rhea too.
Cyril: Thanks, Professor. I think I get it now. I'm gonna put my eyes to real good use.



Anna: A class reunion on the battlefield? That's...bleak. That must have been so hard on everyone. You gotta keep looking after them all. I mean, they still look to you for guidance, you know?



Gatekeeper: Greetings, Professor! Nothing to report! Fhirdiad is a city with a long history that goes back to before Faerghus gained its independence. I'd like to visit that place at least once before I die, but I'm afraid I have my own work to attend to. It's hard being so dedicated! Ah well. I'll go there for some leisurely sightseeing once Fódlan knows peace!

@Opening 
Despite their victory at the Battle of Gronder, the Kingdom army turns around and marches for Fhirdiad instead of heading south.To hail the arrival of the Kingdom army, the people of Fhirdiad begin to rebel. No move is made to suppress them. Instead, Cornelia directs her borrowed Imperial troops to prevent Dimitri from reaching the Kingdom capital.

After Rodrigue's death, Dimitri reassesses his plan of attack. For the sake of the Kingdom, he chooses to forestall an invasion of the Empire in favor of securing his own capital city of Fhirdiad.

@Intro 
Dimitri: Fhirdiad... It has been a lifetime since I was last here. Five years ago, in fact. On the day before my execution, when Dedue helped me escape from prison. I killed soldiers from my homeland, stole weapons from their corpses, and made my escape, soaked in their blood. To think this is how I would return to the city of my birth, after all that has happened...
Byleth: You have Rodrigue to thank.
Dimitri: Yes, Rodrigue gave his life to show me the way back to this path. You have risked much as well.
Byleth: I'm proud of you.
Dimitri: I do not deserve that. If not for you or Rodrigue, I would still be lost...
Dimitri: I am glad to have you at my side. From the bottom of my heart...I am forever grateful. Let's win this, Professor. Let's all make it out alive and celebrate our victory.
Gilbert: Your Highness. The path to the castle has been cleared. We are making preparations to advance. Say the word, and we march.
Byleth: Give the order.
Byleth: It's time!
Dimitri: Yes... Let us begin. Everyone! Listen well! This battle is for all that the Empire stole from us. It is a fight to reclaim the days of peace we once enjoyed. I give you but two commands—stay alive, and follow your heart. That is all I ask. The gates to the Kingdom capital are open. Join me! It is time to take back our home!

Cornelia: I thought I would see you again, little princeling. Heh, so stubborn. It must run in your family.
Dukedom General: Cornelia! The city is overrun with insurrection. It seems to be in response to our enemy's arrival. If we do nothing, our army may suffer damages. We should suppress the citizens immediately.
Cornelia: The people are rebelling? Ha! Let them do as they please. Or are you saying you have enough soldiers to divide our forces? Quite bold of you, with our enemy's most elite soldiers at our doorstep.
Dukedom General: But... What are you suggesting?
Cornelia: The city is going to be a battlefield anyway. Kill all who oppose us, even if they are members of the general populace. Go on now. You are needed out there.
Dukedom General: As you wish. May we find fortune in the battle to come.
Cornelia: Hmph. What an inconvenience the little princeling has turned out to be. And bringing that troublesome person along with him... It would have been much better if he and his sweet little stepsister had been good little children and just killed each other.

@Battle 
Cornelia: The preparations are all in place. Time to meet my old master. Ready the Titanus in the streets! Let's give them a welcome to remember.

Dimitri: Advance! Smash that traitor Cornelia and reclaim the capital! I will not lose... I swear it by the blood in my veins...

Dimitri: Bah! These things are surprisingly tough.. Are they being reinforced by magic?
Gilbert: If there is magic in use, we should find the source and eliminate it.
Cornelia: Weren't the Titanus enough for you? Well then! we had better active the Viskam!

Dimitri: That should stop the supply of magic. Now we should be able to land attacks on those things.
Gilbert: These strange devices and weapons... They are the Empire's? Unbelievable.

@Boss 
Cornelia: My, what a charming little guest. Let me take care of you.

%Byleth,Cornelia
Cornelia: Hm. I can't quite say that I'm pleased to meet you. Though I do know quite a lot about you. It would be nice if we could catch up a little . . . But I'm afraid it's time for you to die.

%Dimitri,Cornelia
Cornelia: My, it's been a long time hasn't it, Your Highness? You've grown awfully strong.
Dimitri: How shameless. I bet it was you who killed my uncle and set me up. Am I right?
Cornelia: Hah! Too true! I'd already forgotten all about that loveliness.
Dimitri: I'll kill you, you monster! You will pay for all that you have done!

%Gilbert,Cornelia
Cornelia: Ah, your face brings back memories... Still alive, are we, Gustave?
Gilbert: Prattle on, Cornelia. Faerghus will not be cowed by the likes of you.
Cornelia: How very dull...

@End 
Cornelia: Well, so be it. Still, I'll give you a little gift ...
Dimitri: It's over, Cornelia. If you have any last words, now is the time.
Cornelia: Right you are. Very well ... I have an old tale that I would like you to hear, if I may. About something that happened ten years ago ... Something Patricia said about how she wished to see her real daughter again, no matter who or what she had to sacrifice to do so ... And about how I made her wish come true, at the cost of the king's head ...
Dimitri: The king's head? You mean Duscur ... You monster! You mean to say that my father ... everyone ... was killed by my stepmother?!
Cornelia: That's right. Her family meant everything to her... You certainly know that feeling, do you not? Ah, poor little prince. Unloved by the only mother he ever knew... How pitiful.
Dimitri: How dare you!
Cornelia: There's nothing left for you now... Nothing but despair.

Gilbert: ...

Dimitri: Try as that woman might to spout nonsense to her very last, nothing could change the fact that she was an enemy of the kingdom. She sold out Faerghus to the Empire, forcing our people to suffer their tyranny... But all that ends today. No more blood will be needlessly spilled. Now the Cornelia has fallen, we will exert pressure on the nobles who were aligned with her. Perhaps we may yet find a connection to the tragic incident in Duscur. Once we do that, we will finally be able to prove the innocence of its people.
Dedue: Your highness... I am certain that would make those of Duscur who lost their lives that day very happy. I am grateful. And I am proud to serve a man such as you.
Gilbert: Come, your highness. You still have some responsibilities that must be carried out. Your people have been patiently awaiting your return.
Dimitri: Do you mean... No. I can't bear to face them after all that I--
Byleth: We're going.
Byleth: You must face them.
Dimitri: Professor... Right you are, as ever. I am their king, after all...

Dimitri: What... what is this?
Gilbert: As you can see, the people are rejoicing at the return of their king.
Dimitri: Even though I turned my back on them, and fled the kingdom in disgrace...
Gilbert: Even so... the spectacle before you does not lie. We are a kingdom in need of a king. A hero to save the people from their long oppression. Your highness... It is truly a blessing that you have returned.
Dimitri: Do I really have the right to stand here? Will they accept me as their king? Bloodstained as I am... Am I fit to be king?
Byleth: If you atone, all will be forgiven.
Dimitri: Yes... you are right again, my friend.
Byleth: Don't cry, Dimitri. This is a happy time.
Dimitri: These are happy tears, my friend.
Dimitri: I am finally home again... Faerghus... How I missed you...

Dimitri: It may be spring, but the nights are quite chilly here in Fhirdiad... Still, our celebratory feast shows no sign of stopping. Have you grown weary of the festivities?
Byleth: I have.
Dimitri:  If memory serves, you were much the same at the ball, all those years ago.
Byleth: I was going to ask you the same.
Dimitri: It's not that I have grown weary... more that I find it difficult to be around everyone at the moment.
Dimitri: I have just returned from visiting the graves of my loved ones. It had been a long while since I left flowers. I was always terribly afraid of going near there... But I could not stay away forever. You have taught me something important, professor.
Byleth: Studiousness?
Dimitri: That too, of course. But what I am referring to is far more valuable.
Byleth: Swordsmanship?
Dimitri: That too, of course. But what I am referring to is far more valuable.
Byleth: Humor?
Dimitri:  You never let up, do you? No, what I am referring to is far more valuable.
Dimitri: How should I put this... Perhaps it is most accurate to say that...you taught me how to live. If you and I had not reunited on that fateful day, I am certain I would have died a fruitless death on the battlefield. I would have foolishly challenged a horde of foes and, in doing so, needlessly sacrificed the lives of my friends and myself. But now, I have returned to my rightful place. I stuffle with what to say, when I know well that words are not enough to express my gratitude. You save me from the darkness...and guided me back to the light. Thank you, Professor. With all that I am, I thank you.
Byleth: Are you happy?
Dimitri: That...is a hard question to answer. I still do not believe I deserve happiness. These hands of mine have taken so many lives... Nobles and commoners. Adults and children. Perhaps a day will come when I have finally atoned for my sins...but such a day is not possible until after the war is over.
Byleth: Do you still wish for revenge?
Dimitri: Revenge was never something I wished for... It was an obligation I felt I had inherited from those who died. I believed my life belonged to those who lost their own in Duscur. But what I now seek is something else entirely... I can say that with confidence.
Dimitri: But I digress... For tonight, our only focus should be to bask in our victory. After that we must prepare for our battle with the Empire. To start, we must absorb the Kingdom knights taken by the Dukedom into our own forces and reshuffle our troops. The lords will need help purge our territory of Imperial forces, and I will use my authority as king to gather forces from various regions... And we'll have to ask the merchants to lend us the fund we require... Oh, and we must request delivery of supplies at once...
Byleth: That sounds like a lot of work.
Dimitri: Heh... Just thinking about it makes my head spin.
Byleth: Good luck with that.
Dimitri: I cannot handle all of this work myself, you know. I will be counting on you, Professor.
Dimitri: There is much to do, but it is all critical work if we hope to stand a chance against the Empire.
Byleth: Is there no way to coexist with the Empire?
Dimitri: Knowing Edelgard, I doubt there is a path that leads to our coexistence.
Byleth: You will soon face Edelgard...
Dimitri: Yes... I am well aware.
Dimitri: I believe we have spoken of this before... Everyone has something they simply cannot accept. As for Edelgard, I am certain she will never be able to accept the Church of Seiros. I believe that is why she seeks to destroy it. She is looking to revolutionize the world. In her mind, for the better. But even if she manages to birth a new world... it would be at the cost of... I wish to end this war through acceptance, not annihilation. Just as my people accepted me, I wish dearly to accept her. But I fear -
Kingdom Soldier: Your Highness! I finally found you!
Dimitri: Ah, I am sorry for slipping away. Has something happened?
Kingdom Soldier: An express messenger just arrived from the leader of the Alliance. Please return to the castle at once.
Dimitri: An express messengers? What in the world could Claude be after? I am on my way. Professor, please join me.@Opening 
Now in control of the Great Bridge of Myrddin, the Kingdom army begins to invade Imperial territory. In response, the Imperial army garrisons soldiers at Fort Merceus.

@Dialogue 
Gilbert: We have received a report from our spy. It would seem the Empire is gathering troops at Fort Merceus. This is undoubtedly in response to us taking the Great Bridge of Myrddin. Their numbers are more than double ours. We believe that the emperor herself may be leading them...
Dimitri: ...
Gilbert: If House Riegan can reconcile with House Gloucester sooner than later... Then Claude can proceed with his plan to rally the Alliance lords, gather troops, and invade Empire territory.
Rodrigue: At this rate, three military forces will be clashing at Gronder Field.
Byleth: Just like five years ago...
Byleth: Just like the Battle of the Eagle and Lion...
Dimitri: If you wish to indulge in nostalgia, do it elsewhere.
Rodrigue: I'm afraid the difference in military strength is far from negligible. While we are elite soldiers, I am still uneasy about this...
Gilbert: If possible, I'd like to request reinforcements right away. If we can rely on any of the major Kingdom houses for military support, it would be...House Charon, I'd wager.
Byleth: Why them?
Gilbert: House Charon has yet to declare fealty to the Empire.
Catherine: It is also...my home. I will make the request to my father. With things as they are, I don't think he can refuse. The church has long protected me. I am certain that any request from the church will be answered to the utmost of their ability.
Rodrigue: Very well. We're counting on you, Catherine.
Gilbert: I suppose that is all we can do for now.
Rodrigue: So it would seem. Though, if there are any other avenues worth exploring, I would suggest...
Byleth: Allying with the Alliance?
Gilbert: Ah, good point. We have no reason to engage the Alliance directly.
Rodrigue: Even if we do receive Count Charon's aid, we still won't have the troops we need to face the Empire.
Gilbert: But if we join forces with the Alliance, then our numbers will rival the Empire's.
Byleth: Let's join forces.
Gilbert: Agreed. It's about the only thing we can do.
Byleth: Let's wait and see.
Gilbert: If we wait too long, we'll lose the advantage...
Gilbert: For now, let's send a messenger, and try to figure out what the Alliance hopes to achieve.
Rodrigue: It's hard to believe this decisive battle will take place at Gronder Field... I image that place is full of memories for all of you.
Mercedes: We won the Battle of the Eagle and Lion back in the day. It seems like a lifetime ago...
Ashe: I can't help but remember, even though I wish I didn't.
Ingrid: Our feast after the battle... I remember it well. We all had so much fun together.
Annette: No! Please, stop it. I had finally put all of that out of my mind... This isn't right. They're our friends! We used to study together. We shouldn't be fighting them.
Sylvain: Why not march up to Her Majesty and remind her of that? Oh, that's right...because you want to live to see tomorrow.
Dedue: No matter who the enemy is, I will fight for His Highness.
Felix: Tell me, boar prince. Do we stand a chance?
Dimitri: Who knows...
Felix: If we lose, we'll have died for you. I hope you know that.
Dimitri: ...
Rodrigue: That's enough, Felix. We must focus on the battle ahead.
Dimitri: Make your peace before we depart. It's kill or be killed out there. We will cross blades with the Empire, but it's possible we will also have to strike down the Alliance.
Gilbert: Your Highness... Do you feel no hesitation about killing your former friends?
Dimitri: If they must die, I will kill them. Nothing could be simpler.

@Conversation 
Dimitri: I can finally kill her... Finally... I can avenge them...



Dedue: You have my sincerest gratitude. Circumstances, and my wounds, have prevented me from being by His Highness's side these five years. I am grateful that you have found him for me. I am once again in your debt.



Felix: As powerful as our knights are, we're outnumbered. By a long shot. This won't be easy. It's crazy to attempt this. I guess I'm crazy to go along with it.



Ashe: If we defeat the Imperial army at Gronder Field, what will our next objective be? I guess we won't have much choice but to try to take Fort Merceus, on the far side of Gronder Field. It's probably too soon for us to be thinking about that, isn't it? The battle just ahead of us is far from certain.



Sylvain: Say we do manage to take down Edelgard here... What do you think His Highness will do next? As long as there's a plan, I won't complain. I just, you know, wanna know there is a plan.
Byleth: Continue on to the Imperial capital?
Sylvain: Yeah, I suppose that's the most likely plan since we're traveling with the church and everything.
Byleth: Head to the Kingdom capital first?
Sylvain: Heh, well, I'd be happy if that were the case, but I don't figure that'll actually happen. All this isn't just going to magically end the moment we kill Edelgard. It's gone too far.
Byleth: I don't know...
Sylvain: Heh, well, if even you can't say, I guess it's not surprising the rest of us don't know either.
Sylvain: I suppose we should focus on the battle right in front of us instead of what happens later.



Mercedes: So, we're finally going to set foot in the Empire... I'm starting to get a little nervous. I guess there's a good chance we'll be fighting more old friends from here on out.



Annette: The thought of fighting people who were once our friends...it makes my heart heavy. If it was gonna come to this, maybe I should have avoided making friends with people from the Empire and the Alliance to begin with...
Byleth: You might be right.
Annette: You think so too, Professor? I'm glad it's not just me.
Byleth: I don't think that's the right attitude.
Annette: I just don't know, Professor. I'm having a hard time with it.
Annette: It did often seem strange to me at the academy that we were studying with all these people from all over the world. But I feel like I've finally started to understand the real reason behind it. The more you get to know people from other places, the harder you'll try to avoid fighting wars with them...



Ingrid: Yet another grand battle awaits. Many will lose their lives.
Byleth: There's no way around it.
Ingrid: I am well aware. This is war, after all.
Byleth: Let's fight our hardest to stay alive. 
Ingrid: Yes, let's. We must both make it home in one piece.
Ingrid: Even considering those we are up against--friends from a time now past--I won't hold back.



Ferdinand: We captured the Great Bridge of Myrddin, but the fight has only just begun. Enbarr, the Imperial Capital, lies far to the south, beyond Gronder Field. And waiting for us on the way there is the entire Imperial army, with twice as many troops as us. We had better brace ourselves.



Linhardt: I seem to lack the skills required to grieve for the dead. If someone has passed, even someone dear to me, I could stand about and wail or get on with my life. While I'm at it, that whole idea that we must speak well of the dead? I don't understand that either. If I didn't like them when they were alive, then why pretend to do so when they are no longer here?



Caspar: After we cross the Great Bridge of Myrddin, we'll be in my father's territory. We actually crossed it five years ago for the Battle of the Eagle and Lion. Remember? Ugh! This is terrifying! What am I gonna do? I gotta get a grip...
Byleth: Don't worry, I'll arrange for your funeral. 
Caspar: You think we'll meet him on the battlefield and he'll kill me? The front lines cover a long stretch of land, you know! We might not even run into him!
Byleth: I'll pray for your safety.
Caspar: Oh, no no no. You should pray we don't run into him at all! The front lines cover a long stretch of land, you know!

Bernadetta: So the campaign continues, does it? Well, allow me, as a professional recluse with ten years of experience, to volunteer for, um...staying behind. Oh, who am I kidding? The fighting won't stop until we've defeated Edelgard, will it? Or until we lose, I guess. But there's not much use in thinking about that.



Dorothea: The Great Bridge of Myrddin was considerably better fortified that it was five years ago... The bridge was full of soldiers...and they all died.  And Ferdie was there. We killed Ferdie, Professor, he used to be our friend. Do you remember those days?



Petra: Nobles who are changing allegiance, again and again. I do not have understanding for that. How can you trust if treason comes with ease? How can you be calling yourself a noble? I do not have understanding of the reasoning...
Byleth: They're struggling for survival too.
Petra: Surviving is more difficult without trust. There must be...some other goal.
Byleth: For personal gain. 
Petra: Survival has more importance than that. Are they not knowing this?



Lorenz: So, Claude and my father have made peace. That is to be expected. They both prioritize their own interests above all else. So long as those interests are in alignment, they will continue to cooperate. And based on that reasoning, one might infer that the Alliance should be also willing to work with the Kingdom's military. I highly doubt Claude would refuse to assist us, if we were to ask.



Raphael: I gotta say, it's tough to keep the fighting spirit alive when you recognize your enemies on the battlefield.
Byleth: Everyone gets that feeling. 
Raphael: So you can't avoid it, huh? How did everything get so messed up?
Byleth: You can run away if you want.
Raphael: Hey, come on! Even I know we can't do that!
Raphael: Just because we're fighting someone doesn't mean we gotta hate 'em! That's probably the worst thing about war. Win or lose, I still get a bad taste in my mouth.



Ignatz: Thanks to our victory, I've been able to study the Great Bridge of Myrddin at my leisure. And you know what? It's an astounding structure. So much history there. Imagine how much time and effort it must have taken to build something that big. Over water, no less! I hope that someday it will be opened up to the people of Fódlan--a historical site, rather than a military checkpoint.



Lysithea: I'm glad you're the one giving orders on the battlefield, Professor. I don't think we should trust Dimitri with that task... Although it's thanks to his obsession that we're wasting no time, taking the shortest route to defeating the Empire. I just can't see a bright future for this army, fighting as we are under the banner of a prince possessed. Even if we do succeed in defeating the Empire, I wonder what will become of Fódlan. I apologize. Whenever I'm with you, I speak more openly than I should. Please keep this between us.



Marianne: The situation in the Alliance has changed so much, but I haven't heard a word from my adoptive father... Do you think he's forgotten about me?
Byleth: I'm sure he's just busy. 
Marianne: If that's the case, I hope he gets even busier.
Byleth: I'm sure that's not the case.
Marianne: I'm not overly concerned about him...
Marianne: I'd actually be happier if he really did forget about me. Everything would be so much easier...



Hilda: I heard the next battle might take us to Gronder Field. Is that right? Reminds me of the Battle of the Eagle and Lion. But of course, that was a very different time. When it was over, all three class heads complimented each other on their bravery. And then we had a party. But we can never go back to that, can we?



Leonie: I heard Edelgard is going to be leading her forces personally in the next battle. Seems pretty reckless to charge right into this one. I'm not sure I like our chances. What do you think?
Byleth: Don't worry. I can handle it. 
Leonie: I don't know why you're so confident, but it does somehow make me feel better.
Byleth: As long as you're here, I'll be fine.
Leonie: Hey, how come you only ever flatter me in times like these? What am I supposed to make of that?
Leonie: Anyway, we've come this far. Let's just keep putting one foot in front of the other and see how far we get.



Seteth: Each time we press forward, our search for Rhea broadens to a wider area. I certainly hope we will find at least some clue, but I do suspect I already know where she is. If I am right, and she is in the Imperial capital, then we cannot save her until we topple the Empire.



Flayn: The Battle of the Eagle and Lion. Has it truly been five years since then? Can you recall whether it was before or after I joined your class, Professor?
Byleth: Before.
Flayn: That is not at all the case, Professor. Your memory serves you poorly.
Byleth: After. 
Flayn: I am glad you have not forgotten.
Flayn: It was shortly after I joined your class--I remember it like it was yesterday.



Hanneman: When undertaking research, the usual method is to form a hypothesis, then test it with experiments. Those experiments reveal facts and falsehoods, yet sometimes, they also unveil an exception. You seem to be that exception when it comes to my Crest research.
Byleth: Sorry about that. 
Byleth: I don't understand.
Hanneman: Worry not, Professor. Exceptions are what make my work interesting. Why don't the rules apply to you? I will find out, eventually. I feel it is my destiny as a Crest scholar!



Manuela: I hear the next battle could be a big one, is that true? I miss the old days when, if someone got hurt, we'd rush them to the infirmary and make them well... But on the battlefield, there's not enough time to help. People die. Professor, don't be one of those!




Gilbert: Catherine will surely be able to convince Count Charon. All that remains is to wait for a response from the Alliance side... For now, there are preparations to be made for the coming battle.



Gilbert: Catherine has successfully convinced Count Charon. However... The knights we sent to the Alliance have yet to return.



Alois: Word just reached me that the Empire has stationed soldiers in Fort Merceus. If they decide to dig in their heels and defend the fort, we'll be in a difficult situation. I hear it's an impregnable keep, surrounded by high ramparts. Taking it would not be easy.




Catherine: Hey, Professor. It’s been a while... Well, actually not that long. If you’re here about the reinforcements, no need to worry. I’ve sorted everything out with my father. If the Alliance agrees to chip in as well, we might have a real chance at victory.



Shamir: Reconnaissance is becoming more of a risk the deeper we move into enemy territory. If I don't come back, assume I'm dead.
Byleth: I know you won't get caught.
Shamir: I'm glad you think so highly of me, but we have to be realistic.
Byleth: Understood. 
Shamir: Good. We have to be realistic.
Shamir: Don't waste your energy worrying about me.



Cyril: I gotta keep this place clean, and I mean properly clean, every day. Dust it, sweep it, everything. You never can tell when Lady Rhea might be back.



Rodrigue: Hm? Oh, it's you, Professor. Sorry, I was a little lost in thought there. About all that has happened, and all that is to come... I'm sure the battles ahead will not be easy, but please take good care of His Highness.



Gatekeeper: Greetings, Professor! Nothing to report! I hear we're sending troops to Gronder Field next. Is that what's what? That whole area is in the territory of House Bergliez. It's famous as the main granary of Fódlan. If we could capture it, we probably wouldn't have to worry about food anymore! Bread for all!

@Intro 
Gilbert: There's quite a bit of fog settling in. We won't be able to advance our troops very far in this.
Rodrigue: We won't be able to move at all until the fog lifts, no matter which path we take. We'll have to be patient and wait it out. ... Gilbert. No... Gustave. I would like to take this opportunity to speak with you about something. It's about the Tragedy of Duscur. There's something about it I just can't wrap my head around.
Gilbert: I'm listening.
Rodrigue: I lost a son in Duscur that day. I exhausted every last resource I had to investigate what took place there. I was startled to find that...there wasn't a single shred of evidence to suggest that Lady Patricia's carriage had been attacked.
Gilbert: Go on...
Rodrigue: Apart from His Highness, whose injuries left him on the verge of death, everyone else present at the time was slaughtered. Of all the victims, only the corpse of Lady Patricia, His Majesty's second wife, was never found. Isn't that right?
Gilbert: Hmm... Surely that means she was abducted. There was no evidence of an attack, suggesting they threatened her but did not kill her...
Rodrigue: But what reason would they have to take her? Would it not have been better to kill her?
Gilbert: Perhaps she had some value as a diplomatic pawn.
Rodrigue: Nonsense. In the many years since that day, has Lady Patricia ever been used thus?
Gilbert: No... Not as far as I know. Then perhaps she was used for some political gain within the Empire.
Rodrigue: Now that her daughter is the emperor, what reason would she have to keep hiding her existence?
Gilbert: It is possible she passed away after returning to the Empire...
Rodrigue: Gustave, I know this is hard for you to hear, but just consider what it would mean if Lady Patricia was involved with that incident...
Gilbert: Silence, Rodrigue. I will not allow you to tarnish her memory like that.
Rodrigue: I do not mean to imply that she arranged His Majesty's murder or anything of the like. But Gustave... I cannot shake the feeling that the tragedy was part of a much larger conspiracy. There is more to it than we know, that much is certain...


Kingdom Soldier: Rodrigue! Gilbert! Please, hurry!


Gilbert: To kill like this...is inhuman.
Rodrigue: This is one of the knights who was dispatched to the leader of the Alliance. Tell me everything you know.
Kingdom Soldier: Sir! A soldier on patrol came across this knight a short while ago in a rocky area not far from here. Someone from the Alliance must have disposed of the body there...
Gilbert: Is this how the Alliance chose to inform us that they have no intention of joining our cause?
Byleth: Could Claude really have done this?
Rodrigue: The Alliance lords each have their own motives. It's difficult to say for sure who was behind this.
Byleth: Maybe it was the Empire...
Dimitri: Yes. I would not hesitate to believe them capable of this.
Rodrigue: Whatever the truth is, the other knights we dispatched are in serious danger. It's best to assume that joining with the Alliance is out of the question now.
Gilbert: Even with Count Charon's support, this makes our situation grim...
Dimitri: I never expected the Alliance to help us. Anyone who stands in my way will be crushed beneath my feet...


Fleche: It is time, dear Brother...

@Opening 
The Kingdom army departs from the Great Bridge of Myrddin and marches south toward Enbarr, the Imperial Capital. Meanwhile, the Alliance army follows from behind to invade Imperial territory, and the Empire has dispatched forces from Fort Merceus to intercept them. The curtain is rising on a conflict between the three armies, which will come to be known as the Battle at Gronder, held on the same plains that witnessed the Battle of the Eagle and Lion.

At Gronder Field, where the Battle of the Eagle and Lion was once held, the house leaders of five years ago have a fateful reunion...but this time, the contest between the Empire, the Kingdom, and the Alliance is no mock battle.

@Cutscene 
Dimitri: Know that I will tear your heads from your shoulders. The dead must have their tribute.

Claude: As big class reunions go...this one's gotta be the worst in history.

Edelgard: Years ago, we fought here as classmates. But not today.

Dimitri: Kill every last one of them!

Edelgard: And so we fight on.

@Battle 
Dimitri: You have finally appeared, Edelgard. Now you are mine.
Claude: The Kingdom army doesn't look interested in joining forces. Let's take a moment and see how this Unfolds...
Edelgard: It would not be advantageous to take on both at once. We must stop the Kingdom and the Alliance from joining forces. I will create such chaotic warfare that will not be able to tell who is friend and who is foe.

Edelgard: Mounted units. Advance!

Petra: The center is in danger of being taken. We must be running to protect it! 

Imperial General: There are enemies in the central area... We need to head there immediately to protect it! 

Claude: Hmph. The Empire and Kingdom are mixed up in this battle. It's a struggle to target the right one. Such are the rules of Melee. We'll just have to crush anyone who isn't an ally!

Claude: They wanna crush us before the Imperial Army? Then we'll show them what we'll made of!

Leonie: Great! I may not have a Crest, but I'll give it my all. 

Hilda: I'm not going to hold back. I can't let down my dear old Claude. 

Edelgard: Those fools who went up the central hill will pay with their lives... in the crimson flames! 

Hubert: The central hill is up in smoke. Suppose I'll have to quench the flames - with the enemy's blood. 

@Boss 
Lysithea: Don't expect me to go easy on you. Because I won't.

Lysithea: I thought I'd be able to live...just a little bit longer than...this.
Claude: Lysithea... She burned too brightly, and faded too fast... 

Ignatz: I am helping Claude build the future of Fódlan!

Ignatz: It's over for me. I did my best
Claude: I'm sorry, Ignatz... I wasn't able to save you... 

Leonie: I can't hold back just because I know you. Sorry, but that's war.

Leonie: S-so this is it. I did what I could, Captain Jeralt...
Claude: Leonie fell? Did I underestimate the enemy? 

Raphael: There's no way you're gonna beat me! You're better off turning tail and running away!

%Byleth,Raphael
Raphael: Wow, it's sure been a while! You're a tough opponent, Professor!

@Boss
Raphael: Claude... Take care of my little sis...and the Alliance...
Claude: Raphael! Don't worry, I promise to look after your sister... 

Hilda: You didn't forget about me, did you? Maybe you should just let me go.

Hilda: I have to get out of here! I'll die if I don't.
Claude: Hilda, you've done well. Leave the rest to me. 

Claude: So sad that our reunion should take place on the battlefield.

%Byleth,Claude
Claude: So, you're actually alive, Teach! It's a shame you aren't on our side. Anyway, isn't the Empire your enemy? Us fighting seems like a waste...

%Dimitri,Claude
Claude: Calm down, Dimitri! What does it achieve, us killing each other here?
Dimitri: Move, Claude. I have no time to exchange words with you.
Claude: It doesn't matter what I'm saying, does it? You aren't even listening. But I'm not gonna budge.

@Boss
Claude: Arrgh... I thought we had a chance, but there was no way to predict the movements of the Kingdom army. I can't afford to die here. I have to retreat.

Bernadetta: Stay back! Stay back or I'll shoot.

%Byleth,Bernadetta
Bernadetta: Professor? Is that you? You're with the enemy. That means I... I'll have to kill you.

@Boss
Bernadetta: Wish I could've at least died at home... not in this big, stupid field...
Edelgard: Bernadetta, thank you. I'll make sure your life was not lost in vain. 

Petra: For Adrestia and for Brigid... I will be defeating all of you!

Petra: I can't be fighting anymore... I must be retreating now...
Edelgard: Don't worry. You must live on to lead your people. Those fools who went up the hill will pay with their lives... in the crimson flames! 

Hubert: You're interfering with the plan. Looks like I'll just have to get rid of you.

Hubert: Fighting on will endanger my life. Your Majesty, I must withdraw.
Edelgard: No need to worry. We still have some troops left. So long as I stand, we won't give up.

Edelgard: I will destroy both the Kingdom and the Alliance. Now, with one fell swoop!

%Byleth,Edelgard
Edelgard: I knew when next we met one of our paths would have to come to an end. Your journey ends here, Professor. Forever...

%Dimitri,Edelgard
Dimitri: Stab your chest, break your neck, smash your head... I will allow you to choose your own death.
Edelgard: I'm not interested in methods of dying. All that matters is when death takes place, not how. And I have no intention of dying today.
Dimitri: I'm sure all of the people you've slaughtered so far thought the same!

@Boss
Edelgard: I lost?! Just as expected, you aren't making my path an easy one. I must retreat for now. We'll meet again on the battlefield.

@End 
Dimitri: So, you think you can escape, Edelgard?

Rodrigue: Your Highness! You're alive! We have to retreat to the Great Bridge of Myrddin...
Dimitri: That woman...we failed to capture her. I'll keep pursuing. The rest of you, keep fighting!
Rodrigue: I'm so sorry...but we can't do that. I understand how you feel, but the Imperial army is closing in!
Dimitri: I'll kill all of them! No matter how many hundreds or thousands of them they are!

Fleche: ...
Rodrigue: You... What are you doing here?! It's too dangerous! Fall back, now!
Fleche: Heh.

Rodrigue: Your Highness!
Dimitri: You...are...

Fleche: Have I caught you off guard, Your Highness? Aww, does it hurt? I bet it hurts reaaaal bad, doesn't it? But it's nothing compared to what my brother felt! You will never be forgiven, you know. I will never forgive you!
Dimitri: You... You must be...
Fleche: You filthy monster! It's time to DIIIIE!

Rodrigue: Dimitri!
Rodrigue: Gah... P-Professor... Do it now!

Fleche: Agahhhh! B-Brother... Help... me...

Dimitri: Rodrigue!
Rodrigue: Your Highness... Are you safe? Please tell me... it wasn't in vain...
Dimitri: This punishment... it was mine to bear.
Rodrigue: There are no sins or punishments... on the battlefield...
Dimitri: NO! Don't die... Please, don't die! Father, Stepmother, Glenn... They all died and left me behind. Rodrigue... Are you to join the ghosts who shadow my every move? This is my fault... I... I'm the one who killed you, as surely as though I had wielded the blade!
Rodrigue: Heh. Your Highness. You have one thing... terribly wrong. None of them... none of us... died for you. I'm dying for what I believe in... just as they did. Your life is your own. It belongs to no other, living or dead. Live for what you believe in. Dimitri... My boy... You really do look just like His Majesty...

Rodrigue: What are you saying, Lambert?!
Lambert: I am heading to Duscur. And before you start, nothing you could say would change my mind. You worry too much, my friend. So far relations with Duscur have been going smoothly, wouldn't you say? You of all people should appreciate how critical these negotiations are.
Rodrigue: Of course I do, but... for the king himself to make the journey... You must admit that it's dangerous. And His Highness is still so young. If the worst should happen...
Lambert: Even if the worst should happen, he would be OK. He's a smart boy, Rodrigue. Even if he should lose his father, I have no doubt that he will grow to be a good and respectable man.
Rodrigue: Lambert...
Lambert: However... If he ever starts down the wrong path and I am not here to set him straight, I am trusting you to do so in my stead, old friend. Promise me.

Rodrigue: Lambert... My promise... I...

@Dialogue 
Dimitri: What do you want?
Byleth: Where are you going?
Dimitri: It doesn't concern you.
Byleth: It does.
Dimitri: Get out of my way. Now.
Byleth: You're going to Enbarr, aren't you?
Dimitri: ...
Byleth: Do you really think that will appease the dead?
Dimitri: Silence. You have no idea what you're talking about. Death is the end. No matter how much lingering regret a person has, after death, they are powerless. They cannot even wish for revenge, much less seek it out. Hatred. Regret. Those burdens fall on the shoulders of those who are left behind. And so I must continue down this path! I already told you as much! It is far too late to stop.
Byleth: You're wrong.
Byleth: There must be another way.
Dimitri: Do not waste your breath with some nonsense about how I should move on with my life for their sake. That is merely the logic of the living. It's meaningless. Those who died with lingering regret... They will not loose their hold on me so easily. 
Dimitri: But you seem to have all the answers... So tell me, professor. Please, tell me... How do I silence their desperate pleas? How do I... How do I save them? 
Dimitri: Ever since that day nine years ago... I have lived only to avenge the fallen. Even my time at the Officers Academy was all so that I could secure my revenge and clear away the regret of the dead. It was the only thing that kept me alive... My only reason to keep moving forward...
Byleth: You must forgive yourself.
Byleth: You've suffered enough.
Dimitri: Hmph.
Dimitri: But then who... or what... should I live for?
Byleth: Live for what you believe in.
Dimitri: What I believe in... Rodrigue said the same thing. But is it possible... I am a murderous monster. My hands are stained red. Could one such as I truly hope for such a life? As the sole survivor of that day, do I... Do I have the right to live for myself?
Dimitri: ...
Dimitri: Your hands are so warm... Have they always been?@Opening 
Prince Dimitri and the remnants of the royal family join with the remaining Knights of Seiros to form a revitalized Kingdom army. Using Garreg Mach as their base of operations, they rise to action against the Empire.

@Dialogue 
Seteth: You! So, you were alive after all.
Flayn: Professor! It is so good to see you again. My brother and I were worried about you.
Alois: Ah, thank the goddess... I couldn't bear the thought of letting Jeralt down by not finding you.
Shamir: Guess you lucked out.
Catherine: We've been looking everywhere for you! But...I see Lady Rhea isn't with you. Damn.
Cyril: Everyone was real worried about you, Professor.
Hanneman: Gilbert has told us everything. From here on, our strength is yours as well.
 Manuela: Gilbert told us everything. We'll help you out however we can, of course.
 Knight of Seiros: Gilbert told us everything. We are at your disposal!
Gilbert: It does my heart well to see that all of you are safe. Now that we have all gathered, let's discuss our next course of action.


Seteth: We have two objectives...to overthrow the Empire and to rescue Rhea. I have no objections to joining forces with you. After all, our interests are aligned.
Gilbert: Nothing could be more reassuring than securing the cooperation of the Knights of Seiros.
Byleth: Thank you.
Byleth: Let's fight together.
Seteth: The archbishop entrusted all of her affairs to you. From now on, I shall comply with your wishes.
Gilbert: We'll make Garreg Mach our base, and prepare to make our stand against the Empire. There is a fair amount of damage, but we will at least have shelter from the wind and rain.
Catherine: Surely those Imperial jerks have this place staked out, right? It's a highly strategic location.
Gilbert: While it may be a strategic location, it's too far from the front lines to be worthy of notice at the moment. This area is inconvenient as far as transport time is concerned, so it's of little importance to their war effort.
Seteth: Even so, nothing slips past the emperor. It is safe to assume she at least has this place under surveillance.
Gilbert: Professor... What do you think about making this place our base?
Byleth: I have no objections.
Byleth: Gathering resources would be difficult.
Gilbert: Yes, that is a valid concern...
Gilbert: Fortunately, there are still villages and hamlets nearby. And though I wouldn't call them abundant, we have war funds, as well. What do you think, Your Highness?
Dimitri: Do as you please.
Annette: Hey! Don't act like this doesn't concern you! We finally reunited after all this time... We've got to work together!
Sylvain: She's right. In fact, why don't we all join forces and clean this place up a bit?
Annette: Ooh, yeah! That's a great idea! And it'll give us time to reminisce about all the good old days at the academy. I can't wait!
Dimitri: How carefree of you.
Ashe: It may sound trivial, but... Well, I think it's a good idea...
Gilbert: I understand feeling impatient, Your Highness. But patience is key at a time like this. If we fix up our base, it will improve morale, which will be sorely needed as we–
Dimitri: Fools.
Byleth: Let's all settle down.
Byleth: Let's all get along.
Dimitri: Stay out of this.
Gilbert: Please calm yourself, Your Highness. We are not your enemies.
Dimitri: My enemies say the same.

Felix: What happened to him? It's like he's a completely different person.
Mercedes: I feel so bad for him... Would it help if I brewed him a nice pot of tea?
Gilbert: I cannot claim to understand how he feels. However... The way he's behaving–it's as though he's being haunted by some unseen force.
Byleth: I'm worried.
Gilbert: As am I.
Byleth: He wasn't always like this.
Gilbert: Perhaps...

@Conversation 
Dimitri: ...



Felix: Hello. I have a request concerning that...creature. I can hardly look at the thing in the state it's in. Do something about it.
Byleth: I'll see what I can do. 
Felix: Please do.
Byleth: I don't think I can.
Felix: Don't just give up like that.
Byleth: Better to just leave him alone.
Felix: Don't just give up like that.
Felix: We tracked the boar for five years. I thought he was dead. In the state he's in, he might as well be. He's gotten better at killing people, and in exchange, surrendered what little humanity he had.



Ashe: Is...is Dedue really gone? There's so much more I wanted to say to him. He was always so tender with the flowers in the greenhouse. I wonder how they're doing...




Sylvain: Hey, Professor. It's been a while. It's really good to see you again. Gorgeous as ever, might I add. An awful lot has happened in these past five years. There were so many times I wished you were around. I'm glad you're back. Your skills are worth more than a whole army.

Mercedes: I finally managed to meet up with everyone again, but they're all so gloomy. Hey, Professor. Care to join me for a cup of tea? We could invite the others, and the soldiers.
Byleth: That sounds nice. 
Mercedes: Doesn't it? There probably isn't enough time to bake any treats though...
Byleth: Um, I don't know...
Mercedes: Don't be like that, Professor. When things are tough, that's exactly when we need to keep our spirits up and smile!
Mercedes: Oh! I should invite Dimitri to come along as well. Though I don't suppose he'll want to join in...



Annette: Now that I think about it, His Highness was right. We probably don't have time to waste on cleaning... Maybe I wasn't taking the situation seriously enough. After all, the Imperial army could be showing up at any time! I was just so happy to see you again. And everyone else too. Maybe I got carried away.
Byleth: I'm happy to see you too. 
Annette: Oh really? That's so nice to hear!
Byleth: Cleaning is important.
Annette: Well, I suppose Lady Rhea would be pretty shocked if she came back to find the place filthy!



Ingrid: These past five years, many Kingdom houses have become vassals of the Empire. The major houses of Fraldarius, Gautier, Charon, and my own family, Galatea, remain loyal... But the lords of the minor domains in the west have almost entirely defected. After all the royal family has done for them, they respond with betrayal. And to think they have the gall to call themselves nobles. But we still have His Highness, and you, Professor. I'm sure we can take back the Kingdom's lands.



Ferdinand: I have lost my dominion. My nobility may seem like nothing more than a title. But I will never lose my noble heart. I will stop Edelgard, even if it costs me my life. I have turned my blade against her now. I cannot go back on that decision. Professor... Do you think I chose the wrong path?
Byleth: Not at all.
Byleth: We'll find out soon enough. 
Ferdinand: You are right...



Linhardt: The promise was made five years ago, but I must say I'm rather impressed by how many of us managed to make it. Personally, I only showed up because I hoped to see you again, Professor. I've been with my family in the Empire until recently. I admit to feeling a little guilty betraying Her Majesty...but only a little. Now that we're all together again, I suppose the fighting will begin soon.



Caspar: Hey, Professor! You won't believe what happened! I figured I couldn't go back to the Empire after Garreg Mach fell, so I started drifting across the Kingdom and the Alliance. Then I just happened to run into our old class, so we came back to the monastery together!

Bernadetta: Ah, at last, I return to my domain! My lonely paradise! My realm of exquisite solitude! Huh? Professor? Is that, um. Is that you? You, um. You didn't hear that just now, did you?
Byleth: Sorry.
Bernadetta: Oh! Forget you heard anything!
Byleth: Hear what? 
Bernadetta: Right. You didn't? Well, um. Good.



Dorothea: Laaa-la-laaa-la-laaa... Professor! Oh my! It's so good to see you. These days, so many old friends seem to be disappearing. But you... You're here! It's incredible to see you again after five years! I have a feeling your name will go down in history.



Petra: Edelgard is controlling the Empire. She is putting the pressure on the Kingdom and Alliance. Empire and religion are at open war. It will be...difficult for us at first. But corrupt nobles are many. That means that common people will rebel and be joining our side. With you, Professor, the battle tides will...ah, will turn. I have certainty.



Raphael: The Alliance is such a mess. How are we supposed to know where's safe and where's not? I should probably just move my little sis and grandpa to Garreg Mach. At least I could keep working on becoming a proper knight without having to worry about them! I gotta find them a house once things calm down a bit!



Ignatz: Oh, Professor! Seeing everyone together again, it's like I'm in a dream. I feel like it's time for me to forge my own path and find my own place in this world.
Byleth: What about your family? Are they OK?
Ignatz: Yes. They're in the Alliance, but they're merchants, so they have the means to escape if need be.
Byleth: How does your father feel about all this? 
Ignatz: I sent him a letter. I'm still waiting on a reply, but I don't think he'd object to my being here. It'll be valuable for him, having someone outside the Alliance to keep him abreast of new information.



Lysithea: I should probably keep things to myself, but in all honesty... What matters to me, more than anything, is ensuring a peaceful, quiet future for my parents. I don't care about the Kingdom. I simply want to remove the threat of the Empire. Because of this, Dimitri's fixation on Edelgard is convenient to me. I fight for my own reasons and no others.



Marianne: Professor... Is there any reason for me to remain here? I want to be useful, of course, but I'm not sure anyone needs me.
Byleth: Then why did you stay?
Marianne: That was my adoptive father's decision. He has decided there is no future in the Alliance...
Byleth: I need you here. 
Marianne: If you really mean that, I will stay and do my best to help.



Hilda: Garreg Mach is a mess. So is Dimitri, honestly. If not for you arriving, Professor, I'd be heading home about now. Though staying here is still more appealing than living with my big brother.



Leonie: I'm so glad I found you here, Professor. Now I don't have to worry about what to do with myself. Captain Jeralt told me to look out for you, after all. So now my purpose is clear. I'll do everything I can to protect you!



Seteth: Five long years, I've searched for you and the archbishop. It is a pleasure to see you again. The Church of Seiros will follow you from now on, but please do not abandon the search for Lady Rhea.
Byleth: We'll do whatever it takes to find her. 
Seteth: Thank you. I know the battles ahead will be dire, but we will support you with all our strength.
Byleth: We don't know what the future will bring.
Seteth: Wherever she is, Rhea is doubtlessly waiting for you. Please do not let her down.



Flayn: Professor, I am so glad you are unharmed! No matter the path you walk, I will be with you every step of the way. Anything you ask of me, I shall see it through. You saved my life, and I am in your debt.



Hanneman: Thankfully, it appears the records and equipment I need for my research have not been damaged. I am most curious though. You say you were asleep for five whole years? Incredible. Perhaps this is another effect of your Crest. I do look forward to investigating you in greater detail.
Byleth: We can talk about that. 
Hanneman: Wonderful news! I am most excited to begin. We must find the time, of course.
Byleth: Uh, maybe later...
Hanneman: I'll have to be content with observing you wherever you go, then. I cannot waste any opportunity!



Manuela: My, Professor. You haven't changed a bit! At your age, I'd expect your whole demeanor to have changed greatly over five years... Though I suppose I haven't changed either, right? Thank you for noticing, by the way. Ah, just the two of us, forever young.  Oh, let me have my fun.



Gilbert: We have given a proper burial to the Imperial soldiers kills in the monastery. The ones who were sent to investigate the thieves. Already, rumors spread that they were utterly annihilated. So regardless of whether there are spies observing us, the Imperial army will know of this soon enough. Your Highness...Dimitri... How could you be so reckless?



Alois: I'd given up on seeing you again. Where have you been hiding? Anyway, now that we're reunited in the land of the living, I must fulfill my promise!
Byleth: What promise?
Alois: The promise I made to the captain, to keep you safe! I can't believe you've forgotten. How cold...
Byleth: Right, the promise. 
Alois: That's right. I promised the captain I'd protect you in his stead, and now I'll make good on my word!



Catherine: In Lady Rhea's absence, I will follow you. That's what she would want me to do. Know that wherever you might lead us, I'll continue searching for Lady Rhea.
Byleth: That's fine. 
Catherine: Good, because I will not budge on that point. Welcome back, Professor.
Byleth: Sounds like a lot of trouble.
Catherine: I don't care how much trouble it is! I will rescue Lady Rhea, at all costs.



Shamir: I'm more of a mercenary than a knight these days. I work to get paid. I never was too attached to Fódlan. I was considering leaving soon... But I might change my mind if you're around.



Cyril: I don't know anything about rebuilding, but I can sure do my best to clean up the mess. I'm gonna keep Lady Rhea's room spotless, so she can use it right away whenever she gets back.



Anna: There's unrest everywhere these days. All of my fellow merchants seem to be endangered. I hope things go back to normal soon. People need more to smile about, aside from my great deals.



Gatekeeper: Greetings, Professor! Nothing to report! You know, it's such a thrill to be able to greet you like this again! I almost died as well in the battle five years ago, but I won't allow any enemies to get into this place again. I promise you that! Even if the Death Knight shows up, I'll be sure to... Well, for now I'll keep training so I can eventually feel confident that I can stop him!

@Intro 
Dimitri: You're wrong.
Byleth: ...
Dimitri: It's not like that, Glenn. I swear it. Any love I once had for my stepsister...has been tossed aside. Only hatred remains. If I could tear that woman to shreds right this very moment, I would. I don't care if she's the emperor. It's no different than killing anyone else. So I beg you...all of you... Do not worry about my resolve. Please, Father... And you too, Stepmother... Do not gaze at me with that look in your eyes... I will bring you her head soon. And when I do, you may finally rest in peace. I know it... Yes, I know it...
Byleth: Snap out of it, Dimitri.
Byleth: What is troubling you?
Dimitri: What do you want?
Byleth: I came to check on you.
Byleth: Everyone is worried about you.
Dimitri: I see. We should make haste and prepare to move out at once. I must kill her as soon as possible...
Byleth: That would be rash.
Dimitri:  I don't have time to leisurely set up camp like the rest of you fools!
Byleth: We must first prepare.
Dimitri:  We have no time to leisurely set up camp. If I must, I will go by myself.
Gilbert: Pardon the interruption. We must prepare a counterattack at once. The Imperial army has caught wind of our position. It would seem they were patrolling this place, after all.
Dimitri: The Imperial army, is it? Well, well. Hehehe...
Gilbert: Your Highness... I ask that you please refrain from reckless behavior in battle.

Randolph: It would seem the report that the Knights of Seiros have returned was accurate. This is going to take some effort.
Fleche: Brother... I heard a rumor that there is a vicious murderer among our enemies.
Randolph: Who knows if there's any truth to it. Thought I admit we have lost some soldiers recently. Whether he's among them or not, taking on the Knights of Seiros is extremely dangerous. You're not ready for the front lines, Fleche. Stay in the back and support us from there. Understood?
Fleche: No! I want to stay with you! I have to–
Randolph: I need you to understand, Fleche. I will come back. I promise.
Fleche: Fine. I trust you, Brother. Please...be safe.
Randolph: All units, prepare to attack!

@Opening 
At the monastery at Garreg Mach, the Kingdom army proceeds to bolster its forces, but the Empire is already one step ahead. An Imperial vanguard, led by General Randolph, has deduced the location of the Kingdom army and now advances with the aim of toppling Garreg Mach for a second time.

Fulfilling a promise made five years ago, your former students gather once more at the monastery, as do the knights. However, your joyful reunion is cut short...

@Battle 
Randolph: The Knights of Seiros are a powerful enemy, but we have more soldiers. We'll take them down all at once!
Gilbert: There are more enemies than expected. Attacking with fire would prove most useful here.

Knight of Seiros: Report! The enemy has entered the periphery of Garreg Mach!
Gilbert: If they reach the interior, we won't be able to protect the monastery. Drive them back!


Gilbert: It is our duty to give these soldiers to their destination. Stay alert. An attack may come at any time.

Gilbert: Damn! We couldn't protect the monastery. We must accept defeat.

Randolph: A total loss... But we can't just return home like this...
Dimitri: Professor! Get down!


Gilbert: The fire attack unit has been destroyed. Our plan has failed.
Randolph: It looks like they were planning something, but it failed!

Gilbert: Fire attack is ready. Now to draw the enemy's attention. So many units, and you still can't defeat us... The Empire's generals are not as formidable as I'd heard.
Randolph: Quiet! Don't think you'll get away with mocking me! Attack! Make sure they never speak again!
Gilbert: Now!

Imperial soldier: Fire! Gyaaaaaah!
Randolph: Argh, a fire attack... The damage is too great. We can't fight anymore! All units, retreat! I'll take on our pursuers! Carry away the injured soldiers!


Gilbert: Chase them down! Leave none standing. Eliminate them before they can regroup.

@Boss 
Randolph: For my house! For justice! I will not be defeated!

Randolph: No... This can't end here...
Dimitri: Capture him.

%Dimitri,Randolph
Randolph: A one-eyed demon... So, it's you. You're the one who's been going around killing the Imperial troops!
Dimitri: What is it to you?
Randolph: You bastard! Life is worthless to you, isn't it?!
Dimitri: Ha! You took the words from my mouth, general!

%Caspar,Randolph
Caspar: You must be Randolph... My uncle.
Randolph: Caspar?! Yes, indeed... So, I see you have chosen to oppose the Empire. If so, be warned that I won't hesitate. I'll strike you down, even if we're of the same house!
Caspar: You took the words right outta my mouth! Graaagh!

@End 
Gilbert: A terrible battle, yet Garreg Mach still stands. Your Highness?

Randolph: I have family waiting for me... Please. I can't die here...
Dimitri: A beast of your depravity, prattling on about family? How amusing.
Randolph: As though you could understand...such a thing as love... You heartless monster!
Dimitri: You are a monster too, General. You have just yet to realize it. A monster who thinks he's a man...despicable. As a general, you must have killed countless souls without a shred of mercy. Do you still remember the sound of them begging, just as you're begging now? Or, now that your life is at its end, will you hold to the lie that your hands are not stained red with blood?
Randolph: This...this is war. I did what I had to for the Empire...for the people...for my family!
Dimitri: So, you are piling up corpses for the people and for your family. And I am doing the same for the salvation of the dead... After all is said and done, we are both murderers. Both stained. Both monsters.
Randolph: You're wrong!
Dimitri: Am I? I can smell the rotting flesh upon your hands even now, General.
Randolph: Enough! That's enough!
Dimitri: I won't kill you right away, my fellow monster. Unless you object to watching your friends die. One...by...one. If so, I will do you the service of removing your eyes first so that–

Randolph: Gaaah! Fleche... Please, forgive me...

Dimitri: ... What is the meaning of this?
Byleth: I couldn't bear to watch.
Dimitri: Hah...hahahaha! A grievous error, Professor!
Byleth: I miss the Dimitri I once knew.
Dimitri: The Dimitri you once knew is dead. All that remains is the repulsive, blood-stained monster you see before you.
Dimitri: If you do not approve of what I have become, then kill me. If you insist that you cannot...then I will continue to use you and your friends until the flesh falls from your bones.

Gilbert: We managed to repel the Imperial army, but we remain divided on our next course of action. I anticipate a second and third wave of attack... With our current forces, we'll have our hands full just defending.
Sylvain: It's a miracle we managed to repel the Imperial army with the few units and resources we do have.
Annette: We should probably contact Rodrigue right away to request backup.
Gilbert: Rodrigue is in a difficult position, as he has suffered invasions by the Dukedom. But there are troops who share in our cause gathering the heart of Fraldarius territory. If we can arrange for them to join us, our forces will grow considerably.
Dimitri: Fraldarius... So, Rodrigue is still alive, is he?
Byleth: We met five years ago.
Dimitri: So you did.
Byleth: That name sounds familiar.
Dimitri: You met Rodrigue when he visited the monastery during Miklan's rebellion.
Felix: I wonder what my old man will say when he sees you now. That spectacle alone will be worth the trip.
Dimitri: Hmph.
Gilbert: I've already sent word with our fastest messenger informing Rodrigue that His Highness is alive. But we'd do well to send another in case anything happens to the first. With the current state of things, we'll be completely helpless without his support. Your Highness, may I ask what your next plan of attack is? Should we dispatch our troops to the Kingdom capital or to the Imperial capital?
Dimitri: We will take the Imperial capital. There, I will kill her. We end the war and chase away the lingering regrets of the dead. Nothing could be more to the point.
Annette: Uh, that may be true, but don't forget that your people need our help right now...
Ingrid: Your Highness... I hate them too. But the citizens of Fhirdiad have long awaited your return.
Sylvain: Just give it up already. Wasting time thinking about stuff like that will only dull your blade.
Ashe: Defeating Edelgard would put an end to the war. That would benefit the Kingdom as well...
Mercedes: We still need to look for Lady Rhea, so I agree that we should get to Enbarr as fast as possible.
Seteth: Professor... Whatever you decide, we shall follow.
Byleth: Let's take back Fhirdiad, the Kingdom Capital.
Dimitri: You were entrusted with leading the church. One would think the logical step is to march to Enbarr. If Lady Rhea is being held prisoner in the Empire, we don't have time to waste taking back Fhirdiad. Can you deny it?
Byleth: ...
Byleth: Let's take down Enbarr, the Imperial Capital.
Dimitri: Yes... It is the only way.
Gilbert: Either way, we are in need of numbers. It is essential that we secure backup.@Opening 
The Kingdom Army has reclaimed the kingdom capital and plans to immediately begin restoring the country and its forces. But an unexpected request arrives from Claude, leader of the Leicester Alliance. Dimitri promptly responds to the request for aid, and he rushes to prepare the kingdom's forces.

Having allowed the Imperial army to invade, the Alliance army makes their last stand at the center of House Riegan territory in Derdriu. The Kingdom army rushes to their aid after amassing more troops.

@Dialogue 
Dimitri: We have received a request for aid from the Alliance. They are being invaded by the Empire. We have only just taken back Fhirdiad, and yet I am already asking all of you to move out once more. Please accept my apologies for that.
Ingrid: That's no problem at all. More importantly, how is the Alliance faring?
Dimitri: House Riegan has rallied the Alliance Lords. They are facing the enemy with all the strength they can muster. But we do not know how far that will get them. It seems the enemy's relentless attacks have forced them into a tough situation. Their defeat at Gronder severely weakened the Alliance. I imagine the Empire now intends to destroy them before they can recover.
Gilbert: To think they'd watch us chase their soldiers out of the kingdom capital, then immediately go invade the Alliance... Their general is Lord Volkhard von Arundel. He serves as regent to the Emperor. He has presumably taken command after the Emperor was wounded in Gronder.
Dimitri: He is known for his shrewdness and excels not only in domestic affairs, but tactics as well. He is not an opponent we should take lightly. Lord Arundel...
Byleth: Are you concerned?
Dimitri: I always suspected that Lord Arundel was behind the tragedy nine years ago. The timing of his departure from the kingdom, the fact that he abruptly stopped making donations... Too many factors made him suspect. If Lord Arundel conspired with Cornelia... then what Kronya and the others said five years ago...
Gilbert: Hmm...
Dimitri: Well, nevermind that for now. The Alliance needs our help. What are your thoughts?
Gilbert: If we turn our back on the Alliance and then Derdriu falls, it will undoubtedly make our situation difficult further down the road. We would have enemies in two directions... in the Alliance to the northeast and in the Empire to the south.
Dimitri: That is true. In that scenario, we would not be able to safely march our soldiers to Enbarr.
Flayn: I'm terribly worried about Lady Rhea... but I believe we must save the Alliance first.
Annette: Oh! Maybe if we do this, the Alliance will help us out in return! We could ask them to help us attack the Empire. You know, a sneak attack or something!
Mercedes: Annie! When did you become so devious?
Gilbert: Heh. What would your mother think.
Annette: What? It wasn't that devious!
Gilbert: What do you think, professor?
Byleth: Let's march for Derdriu.
Dimitri: Yes, I agree.
Byleth: I support whatever Dimitri decides.
Dimitri: We must go to Derdriu.
Dimitri: I will admit that there is something to be gained for us as well, for when we eventually march south... But far more importantly... they need us. We cannot turn our backs on them.

Dimitri: We will arrange to head out at once. Prepare yourselves, everyone.

@Conversation 
Dimitri: it was over 20 years ago... There was an illness raging across Fhirdiad. While people were dying left and right...it was Cornelia who saved the Kingdom from that dreadful illness.
Byleth: I can't imagine it...
Dimitri: Neither can I. By the time I was old enough to understand, that time had already passed.
Byleth: Cornelia was a doctor?
Dimitri: No, I her she was originally an Imperial scholar. She was in the Kingdom by my father's invitation.
Dimitri: People praised Cornelia as a saint for ending the epidemic. But there came a day when she completely changed. Her behavior, mannerisms, likes, dislikes...everything. Despite all that, Father still appointed her to a high post. After all, she had saved the Kingdom from ruin by that disease... But above all, my stepmother trusted her. That's why what that woman said is... Never mind.



Dedue: Lord Rodrigue Fraldarius has passed on. Margrave Gautier has assumed his position, and is now gathering the lords of the eastern territories. House Gautier is equal in prestige to House Fraldarius. Sylvain is a Gautier. These lords are reorganizing the Faerghus army, and eradicating any remaining factions that claim allegiance to the Empire. Of course, His Highness is being kept appraised with regular reports. But it falls to me to monitor him, and ensure he does not try to take on too much. I would ask you to do the same. If you take your eyes off that man, even for a moment, he is liable to do something rash.







Ashe: The very same night we liberated the capital, a messenger arrived from Derdriu. Claude must have predicted that we'd retake it.
Byleth: Definitely.  
Byleth: Could have been a coincidence.
Ashe: No, I don't think so. It takes too long to travel to Fhirdiad from Derdriu for it to be chance.
Ashe: Claude's a hard person to read. It's obvious not much escapes his eye though. Kind of unsettling, honestly.



Sylvain: Derdriu, the Aquatic Capital... I've heard it's a magnificent city, you know. If we're going, I wish it wasn't to wage war. It'd be more fun to visit with a cute girl on my arm.
Byleth: Maybe once the war is over... 
 Sylvain: You're right. That's something to look forward to.
 Sylvain: Yeah? Maybe you and me? That'd be a good reason to survive the war. Heh heh...
Byleth: Forget it.
Sylvain: Aw, come on. let a guy dream.



Mercedes: I went to visit my adoptive father at his home in the capital. He used to grovel at Cornelia's feet when the city was under her control. But after it was liberated, he started courting the Kingdom instead.
Byleth: Whatever it takes to get ahead.
Mercedes: I suppose he was just doing what he needed to survive...
Byleth: That's despicable. 
Mercedes: Absolutely. He's hopeless. I suppose when you're a merchant, that's all you know.
Mercedes: No matter what becomes of the world, it'll always be plagued by people like him.



Annette: Derdriu, huh? I've always wanted to go there. In Faerghus, most of the towns are pretty much glorified fortresses. So to hear about a place called the Aquatic capital... it just sounds so elegant! When the war's over, I hope I can visit with everyone there!



Ingrid: So, House Riegan has regained its influence in the Alliance and is gathering forces. Claude always was somewhat inscrutable. It's strange somehow to hear talk of his brilliance as the leader of the Alliance.



Ferdinand: I have been wondering something... If I had not been your student, where would I be right now? Who would I be? Do you ever think about that sort of thing, Professor?
Byleth: Like what if I had led a different class?
Ferdinand: Ah, so you do think about such questions. You can never find answers though, right? We cannot turn back time, so there is no way to back and try a different path.
Byleth: Like what if I had allied with the Empire? 
Ferdinand: Ah, so you do think about such questions. You can never find answers though, right? We cannot turn back time, so there is no way to back and try a different path.
Byleth: No, I don't.
Ferdinand: I see... You are so focused and coolheaded. I wish I could be more like you.



Linhardt: Traveling to the Empire, to the Kingdom, and then off to Alliance territory... Everyone certainly is busy. Perhaps it's not a bad thing now that I think about it.
Byleth: It's all in the pursuit of peace.
Linhardt: Peace will be lovely. Peace will, one assumes, be considerably less perilous.
Byleth: Yes, very busy. 
Linhardt: If only we were only busy, then I think I would be fine. I'd be able to take a nap for one. But If I napped now, I suspect that I soon enough I'd find myself busy dying...



Caspar: Didn't they used to call Claude the Master Tactician? I want a nickname too! Maybe I'll get one if I can rescue him at Derdriu... I'll come up with a plan that's even better than his and earn a nickname for sure!

Bernadetta: Claude... Claude... Which one was he again? Oh! Right. Yeah, of course I remember him. It's just... I can't picture his face. Don't remember what he looks like. I'm not sure if I ever knew.



Dorothea: Dimitri is going to Claude's aid. How great is that? It's like we've gone back to how things were five years ago. It's so nice. Just imagine if Edie was there too? I suppose you can't ever really go back to the way things were in the past...



Petra: I am being told you can see the sea from Derdriu. Not just see...that it is right there in front of you. In Brigid, the sea has great closeness. I would be looking at it every day. But in Garreg Mach, we cannot look at the sea. So I am feeling...drawn to Derdriu.
Byleth: The ocean is frightening. 
Petra: That is true. The ghosts of the sea have vengeance in their hearts. If they are wanting to take you, you cannot be saved.
Byleth: The sea is beautiful.
Petra: Yes, I think the sea has much beauty. But can also be frightening.



Lorenz: It seems Dimitri has become downright charitable. But I believe he is operating under a serious misapprehension. It may appear as if Claude is appealing to Dimitri for aid, but that is not what is happening here.
Byleth: Another one of Claude's tricks?
Lorenz: That's not it either. I see it got by you as well.
Byleth: Did he not actually ask for help?
Lorenz: That's not it either. I see it got by you as well.
Byleth: Is there another interpretation? 
Lorenz: Yes. A fine example of how snap decisions based on mere appearances can lead to gross misunderstandings.
Lorenz: Claude has asked for reinforcements from here because he knows I am here. Simply put, he is not throwing himself on Dimitri's mercy. He is throwing himself on mine. I suppose there is nothing else for it, is there? We cannot turn our backs on those in need. Let us grant him the aid he requires.



Raphael: We're going to go help Claude? I haven't seen him in forever. Wonder how he's been... I chose this side because I believe in you, Professor. But it's not like I got anything against Claude.
Byleth: What was he like?
Raphael: Hmm... Well, he loved parties, and he was full of some pretty good jokes!
Byleth: Were you close? 
Raphael: Of course! Claude was the kinda person who would be instantly friends with anyone.
Raphael: I got no clue what'll happen to the Alliance, but I sure hope Claude doesn't die...



Ignatz: So, war finally comes to the Alliance territories. I don't mean that there's never been fighting on Alliance soil, of course. There have been countless skirmishes between neighboring lords, as well as conflicts with Almyra. But this is an invasion by an army of the Empire. It's a whole different animal. I don't want to see my family get dragged into this... I hope we can drive back the Empire.



Lysithea: The pro-Imperialist lords who've let the Empire in have their hands tied. Houses Ordelia and Gloucester are exposed and likely caught off guard. That must mean that Claude's allies are...
Byleth: Duke Goneril.
Lysithea: Geographically, it would be hard for him to commit his forces, and logically, it wouldn't make sense for him to offer support.
Byleth: Margrave Edmund.
Lysithea: Margrave Edmund does not commit troops as easily as he commits funds, so that's doubtful.
Byleth: Count Daphnel. 
Lysithea: Without a doubt she is providing reinforcements. She has always supported Claude.
Lysithea: Whatever the situation, Claude's military strength is lacking, and what's more, they suffered casualties at Gronder Field. I don't know how long the Alliance forces will be able to hold out against the Empire. We've got to move quickly or we may be too late.



Marianne: I'm glad Dimitri and Claude don't have to fight one another... I am the daughter of an Alliance lord though, so I suppose that goes without saying. Having to fight with your former classmates is just so terribly sad...



Hilda: We took Fhirdiad back, but I never found the time to go shopping there! When the war's over and the city is revitalized, I'd like to visit again. Will you come with me, Professor?
Byleth: All right. 
Hilda: Really? Oh, I'm so glad! Although I suppose we have bigger things on our plate, like...
Byleth: Shouldn't we be more worried about... 
Hilda: Claude! He's in big trouble. I bet my family is too. We have to help them, Professor! I know we can't lose with you on our side!



Leonie: Guess this doesn't end with liberating the Kingdom capital. Derdriu is next. That prince really works his people hard, doesn't he? Or should I be calling him a king now? Whatever the title is, he'll always be Dimitri to me.



Seteth: I thought there was a chance that Cornelia had captured Lady Rhea, but it seems that is not the case. Our next foe, Lord Arundel, was once a pious adherent to the Seiros creed. His contributions to the church stopped quite abruptly some time ago. I think it is likely the man knows something.



Flayn: You plan to aid Claude, do you not? I think that is absolutely marvelous. Being opposing forces at the battle of Gronder was ill fated. It hurts to side against him. I am happy that things have taken a brighter turn now.



Hanneman: Cornelia Arnim... That's a familiar name, yes. She once studied in the Empire. My understanding is, shortly after I left the Empire, she did as well. Unlike myself, Cornelia traveled to the Kingdom. Apparently she halted a plague, and was rewarded with a quite powerful appointment. That such a an outstanding researcher should fall to such depravity... Sickening, Professor. And quite sad.



Manuela: Remember the Death Knight who stabbed me five years ago? Of course you do. How could you forget? Well, it turns out he's a general in the Imperial army, claiming victory on dozens of battlefields. But it looks like he's not at Derdriu. Like every man in my life, he's run away from me... And he better run! One day, I'm gonna find that guy and pay him back for what he did to me!



Gilbert: With the capital recaptured. I desire to call him Your Majesty rather than Your Highness. He would refuse my desire, rightfully pointing out that he has not, as yet, been crowned. However, the day this war has ended, and the church has placed the crown upon his head... Then, he will truly be our king, and I will call him Your Majesty at last. I must go hear the reports from our spies. There is something worrying me and—No. I can wait. I shall tell you more when our information is more concrete.



Alois: I was getting excited for our big Empire showdown! I spent so much time mentally preparing. Then we shifted focus to Derdriu. I hadn't been expecting that. But, as a knight who's sworn to serve the goddess, I cannot turn a blind ear to those who seek my aid.



Catherine: We're still searching for Lady Rhea. No news on that, I'm afraid. Lord Arundel, the emperor's uncle, is the regent of the Empire. If we crush them at Derdriu, maybe we'll capture him and wring some clues out of him.



Shamir: Claude, eh? He always was sharp among his peers. Never let himself get caught up in conventions. He wasn't typical in Fódlan. I'd like to save him if we can.
Byleth: We'll make it in time.
Shamir: I know. And I'm sure he's already calculated exactly when that will be.
Byleth: He's too determined to die. 
Shamir: Heh. You may be right.



Cyril: Ugh, even if we do enter Alliance territory, we're not gonna find Lady Rhea there. I wish we could leave Claude be and go attack the Empire. I suppose if we can't beat the Empire forces here, then we can't get into the Empire lands, can we? I guess that means it's just hard work time, huh, Professor?



Gatekeeper: Greetings, Professor! Nothing to report! Derdriu is known as the Aquatic capital... It's a beautiful town with streets that seem to float on the water and an impressive harbor. In times of peace, it would be a wonderful place for a holiday... Anyway! Best of luck in the next battle!

@Intro 
Alliance Soldier 1: The citizens of Derdriu have all been evacuated and are now at sea! Are you sure about this? If Derdriu were to fall, those ships don't have enough resources for --
Claude: Derdriu won't fall. Have some faith in me, will you?
Alliance Soldier 1: Oh! Yes, sir!

Alliance Soldier 2: Our line of defense has been broken! The Imperial army will be here any moment!
Claude: Understood. You two join up with the troops in the city.
Alliance Soldier 2: Yes, sir! 
Claude: Judith, are you ready?
Judith: As ready as I'll ever be. It's been years since I last battled in the city streets.
Claude: Don't go messing up because your vision has weakened with age. Take the defensive for now.
Judith: Yeah, yeah, I get it. You hang in there, too, boy. Your wounds from Gronder Field haven't fully healed yet, have they?
Claude: No, but it's not like I can sit this one out. I have to make my daring escape, after all. And for the last time, stop calling me boy! That's an official order from the leader of the Alliance.
Judith: Understood, Leader Man. I wonder if our little ray of hope will show up... We fought on opposite sides at Gronder, didn't we?
Claude: They'll come. You can count on it. If anyone can bring him back, it's Teach. Teach will talk, and he'll listen. But more than anything, I've their skill and abilities... I believe in them.

Alliance Soldier 3: Claude! Reinforcements are coming from the west! Their banner is that of the Kingdom...
Claude: What did I tell you? They're here. And just in time.



Gilbert: It appears the Imperial army has already marched into Derdriu and engaged the Alliance. It seems the Imperial advance has been stalled by guerrilla skirmishes. The Alliance forces are holding out, but they won't last much longer...
Ingrid: That must be Judith of House Daphnel who joined up with Claude's troops. To think Judith, a true hero, would find herself backed into a corner like this...
Dimitri: It is not so. The Alliance has only drawn the enemy so deeply into the city to allow us to attack them from behind. Brilliant.
Byleth: They're planning a pincer attack?
Dimitri: I believe so. He put his soldiers into position purely on the belief that we'd come... I can't believe Claude would risk everything on that behalf. He has placed all of his hopes on us. Let's make sure we live up to his expectations, Professor.

Dimitri: Here we go. Let's move!

@Opening 
Shortly after reclaiming the Kingdom capital, a request for aid arrives from Claude. To save the Alliance from ruin, you head to Derdriu, the Aquatic Capital.

@Battle 
Lord Arundel: The leader of the Alliance has managed to escape to the harbor, has he? Those rats resist in vain...
Imperial Soldier: Your Excellency! There's an army closing in on us from outside. The banners...are those of House Blaiddyd.
Lord Arundel: Blaiddyd? I see... That idiot failed, it seems. Hurry up and kill the leader of the Alliance. With him gone, Derdriu will fall.

Dimitri: I will not let Claude die... Let's hurry to his rescue.
Claude: Hey, you're late! Hurry up and help!

Gilbert: Look. The Imperial army's supply corps. Attacking them now would be a fine plan.


Imperial Soldier: The subjugation of Derdriu is complete. We will be joining the main army now!
Claude: Ugh... They're showing up one after another... Nothing for it but to blockade the gate leading to the town. I don't want the enemy's numbers to increase any more.


Hilda: Claude's nuts. Asking me to protect the bridge! That's so much responsibility. But the guy's so helpless, I feel sorry for him. So, I'll do what I can to protect him.

@Battle-Talk 
%Byleth,Hilda 
Hilda: Professor! It's been too long. I was hoping you'd show up. Seeing you puts a spring in my step! Come on, time to 'em the Hilda treatment!

@Battle 
Hilda: It's been fun, Claude... Sorry to go so soon...
Claude: Hilda! Why didn't you retreat?! I counted on you retreating...

Judith: It's no good...we're surrounded. But I need to hurry up and rescue the boy... To get to the harbor, first we have to get rid of the enemy mercenaries. There's no other way.

Judith: Thank you. That was a big help. I'll go and cover our leader!

Judith: I guess my vision really is going! I slipped up... Don't you get yourself killed out there, boy.
Claude: Judith! Stop calling me boy! I'm your leader... And I told you not to die...

Imperial Soldier: Now! Hidden soldiers, attack!


Claude: I missed that face! And you're just in time. Thanks for that. 

@Battle-Talk 
%Dimitri,Claude
Dimitri: You're OK... Can you still fight, Claude?
Claude: You barely snatch me from the jaws of death, and now you're recruiting me! You sure know how to inspire loyalty, Your Majesty. Sadly, I'm not free to move here, for many reasons. You'll have to repel the Empire without me...

%Byleth,Dimitri
Claude: Professor, if you had chosen me instead of Dimitri... No. I shouldn't dwell on it. I'm grateful you came. I'm glad to have your strength, if only for today. 

@Battle
Claude: My plan failed... Teach. Dimitri. That's enough. Time to retreat. I've crossed one too many bridges... It's a shame, but... It's over now...

@Boss
Lord Arundel: Clever. I can't believe they pushed through to here. Nothing is more foolish than dying in vain. Let's get to the harbor and finish off the leader of the Alliance! 

Lord Arundel: Nothing bites so hard as a cornered rat, eh?

%Dimitri,Lord Arundel
Lord Arundel: You would raise a weapon against your uncle? You've grown into a savage of a man, just like your father.
Dimitri: You are rather calm for one in your position. Or did you forget that this is a battlefield? Perhaps this is no time for words, Uncle. There will be time for that after we have settled things here.

@End 
Dimitri: Uncle, I need to know. The incident nine years ago ... You were involved, weren't you? You know something. What did Cornelia... No. What did my stepmother do?!
Lord Arundel: You are not qualified to look into the darkness... You and Edelgard... Do your best to kill each other... You are family, after all. There it is... the light...

Dimitri: He's dead. There goes our chance to gain more information. Then again, even if we had managed to capture him alive, judging by the way he was acting...
Byleth: For now, let's rejoice in our victory.
Byleth: We can think about that later.
Claude: Teach is absolutely right. We should take this rare opportunity to let off some tension.
Dimitri: It's been a long time, Claude. I am glad to see that you're safe.
Claude: Same. I haven't seen you since the nightmare that was Gronder. You really did come to help us... You must be a bunch of soft-hearted suckers, eh?
Dimitri: If you really felt that way, you would not have set up a defensive battle in the hopes that we would come. It worked out, only because we made it in time... Were you really so confident that we would answer the call?
Claude: Of course. I knew you wouldn't hesitate to put yourself second and come running to our aid.
Byleth: You know him well.
Byleth: How insightful.
Claude: You and I are cut from different cloth. I wouldn't make a move unless I could gain something from it. You've always been just the opposite. And of course, I've always been fond of taking dangerous risks. After all, I sent that express messenger before you had even recaptured the kingdom capital. If all went to plan, I knew you'd recapture it soon, and then respond to our request for aid. It was riskier than usual, I'll give you that. But it was the only card I had to play, so I took the gamble.
Dimitri: You cross too many dangerous bridges for my liking.
Claude: I know, I know. But... that ends today.
Dimitri: What do you mean?
Claude: Here, take this. Use it however you see fit.
Dimitri: The legendary bow, Failnaught... Isn't this the hero's relic of house Riegan? Hold, Claude. This must be one of your jokes. You cannot truly intend to part with this...
Claude: It's not a joke. As of today, the Leicester alliance is no more.
Dimitri: Just what are you planning, Claude?
Claude: If you're going to lead Fódlan, then the alliance Lords will follow you. Back in the day, the Alliance split off from the kingdom. I'm just putting us back together again. Oh, and I've already gained the support of the other Lords at the roundtable conference, so you can stop looking at me like I'm crazy. All that's left for me is to officially step down as the leader of the Alliance.
Byleth: What will you do now? 
Byleth: Will you join our army?
Claude: Hold your horses there, Teach.
Claude: I'm leaving Fódlan. There are things I have to do. Dreams I need to see to fruition. That's why I became the Alliance leader to begin with, actually. But it left me no time for what I was really after. You'd better not take on too many responsibilities yourselves, or else you'll end up in the same boat. And remember... both the living and the dead cling to us without any regard for our own lives. It's up to us to break free of that weight and follow the path that we believe in.
Dimitri: Claude...
Claude: Oops! I almost forgot the most important thing. If you're looking for Rhea, apparently she's being held captive in the imperial capital. It doesn't sound like they intend to kill her, but there's no telling what they're planning.
Dimitri: You have my gratitude, Claude.
Claude: Gratitude? Thanks but no thanks. As far as I'm concerned, we're even now. I don't know how many years will pass until then, but let's promise to meet again. And when we do... don't be too hard on me, your Kingliness.

Felix: Well, Dimitri? Are you finally going to tell us the damned truth?
Dimitri: What are you talking about?
Ashe: Didn't Lord Arundel say something about you and Edelgard being family?
Ingrid: To claim that the king and the emperor are related... Could it be?
Dimitri: Ah, I suppose I never told you, though I do recall mentioning it briefly to the professor... Lord Arundel spoke the truth. My stepmother was Edelgard's birth mother. Political turmoil drove my stepmother out of the Empire. Father fell in love with her at first sight and they married. I lost my birth mother before I was old enough to remember her. My stepmother filled that role for me. But she lost her life in Duscur nine years ago, along with Father.
Felix: Hang on, I didn't even know she was your stepmother. Did my father know about this?
Dimitri: Yes. All those who were close to my father knew, including Rodrigue. But to speak openly about it would have caused a scandal, and so she was our secret. No one in the general public knew about her. Naturally, the fact that Edelgard and I are stepsiblings was kept a secret as well.
Mercedes: I'm finally beginning to understand what you went through five years ago. I mean, Edelgard is the only family you have left, isn't she? To find out someone so precious to you is actually your most hated enemy... How heartbreaking.
Annette: But wait! You two were born and raised in two different territories, right? So you probably never met until you were both at the academy. I mean, don't get me wrong, I think the idea of fighting family is just about the worst thing ever. But hopefully the fact that she's a stepsister you never really knew helps with the pain... I don't know, it was just a thought.
Dimitri: I am afraid that's not the case. Though it was only for a short time, Edelgard once called Fhirdiad home. It was a long time ago, but she was a cherished friend of mine.
Sylvain: Wait! I remember now! She was that girl, wasn't she? The one you gave a dagger to! Heh, so your little girlfriend was Edelgard.
Dimitri: Sylvain. If you have any more foolish things to say, please hold them for later.
Sylvain: I do have a few more up my sleeve, but they can wait. Go on, Your Highness. This is important for us to hear.
Felix: She may be a hated enemy now, but the emperor is your old friend and stepsister. Can you bring yourself to kill her?
Dimitri: I will kill her... if I must. But if there is any chance that the world she seeks to create could be a just one... Then I... I would love to see a future in which I may reach out my hand for her and have her reach back. That said, I have no intention of letting my personal feelings cloud my judgment. Too much is at stake.
Ashe: Your Highness... I think you should meet with the emperor and at least try to talk to her. If there's any hope of ending this war without more bloodshed, we have to try. Besides, killing your own family... I'm sorry, but it's not right.
Dimitri: I...I think so too. And you are right that we should at least try.


Edelgard: I see. So my uncle's defeat is beyond doubt?
Hubert: Yes, Your Majesty. I have confirmed it via countless channels. I advise that we accept this as a drop of joy amid a pool of sorrow.
Edelgard: Pretty words, but I'm afraid we can't rest until the joy outweighs the sorrow. And for that to happen, it now seems we must confront them all at once. Dimitri, who took back Fhirdiad... Claude, who managed to protect the Alliance...And that professor, who is successfully mobilizing the Knights of Seiros...
Hubert: What will you do, Your Majesty?
Edelgard: Pull back our forces. In the west, to Arianrhod. In the east, to—
Hubert: Fort Merceus, I presume? There is no better place for such a confrontation after all.
Edelgard: Indeed. And dispatch the Death Knight to guard it. He can buy us some time. In the meantime, I will—
Hubert: Forgive me, but I must speak bluntly. I do not agree with what you intend to do. Though slight, there is a chance that once done, it cannot be undone.
Edelgard: Even I cannot choose the direction my path leads me. There is no other way. And so, I must walk on.