%Clive 
Mathilda: Clive!
Clive: Mathilda! Every night, I dreamt of being able to fight at your side again like this.
Mathilda: As did I, my love. I fear I'm so excited, I can barely keep hold of my weapon. ...You do have that effect on me.
Clive: Heh heh. In that case, I hope I don't lose us the damned battle. There's no need for you to be nervous. I'll be right here. Now go forth and tear the enemy apart like the beautiful war maiden you are.
Mathilda: I thought you would never ask. Watch over me, my love!
Clive: My sweet, how could I do elsewise?

Mathilda: Clive!
Clive: Mathilda! The artistry of your lance swings has been making my heart soar.
Mathilda: I have a long way to go before I can wield a lance like you, my love.
Clive: Nonsense, my darling. There is no warrior I would sooner go back-to-back with in battle than you. You will bring us certain victory. Mark my words!
Mathilda: I'm so very glad you agree. ...In truth, I was just checking. Now point me at your foes, that I may cut the louts down one by one!
Clive: Ha ha ha! Where to begin!

Mathilda: Ah, Clive...
Clive: Mathilda, what grieves you? You look so sad. Where hides your lovely smile?
Mathilda: It's your sister... She claims I was showing you up on the battlefield. That it was... unbecoming. This conversation set my mind a'whirl. On the battlefield, man and woman are equals judged by skill alone. But you are to be my lord husband. It was never my wish to diminish you or bring you shame.
Clive: My sister is the one who should be ashamed. Such an old-fashioned idea! I will never be your "lord," and your exploits bring me naught but pride. If I want to outshine you, then I must earn it by my own hand. Don't you dare change. I love you exactly as you are.
Mathilda: And here I thought I could never love you more...!
Clive: Now get back out there and have at those dastards, you wild Valkyrie.
Mathilda: Ah, it does my heart good to hear those words. Now stand back while I unleash the seven hells upon these pitiful fools!